all: ar-diri 
all: diːri 
all: puːliʌ 
and: bedigan 
and: beːdigʌn 
ankle: oːŋ-tɔːgʌr 
ankle: toar 
arm: gud 
arm: id-guːd 
arm: kaapa 
arm: taaga 
arrow: rɒɑtɒ 
ashes: id-buk 
ashes: id-buːk 
ashes: pich-lid-uya 
ashes: piːc-l\id-uːyʌ 
ashes: pit 
at: -l-en 
back: gudur 
back: guːdur 
back: ʌr-kɑteː-gɔːroːb 
bad: ɟɑboːg 
bad: choaro 
bad: jabog 
bark: ot-kaich 
bark: oːt-kɑic 
belly: ɑb-ɟɔːdɒ 
belly: jaudo 
belly: ɟɔːdɒ 
big: bod- 
big: kochu 
big: koːcu 
big: toabengi 
bird: chula 
bird: cuːlʌ 
bite: gɒɑŋ- 
bite: koarop- 
bite: kɒɑrɒp- 
bite: kuːrɑmɑ- 
bitter: karepaich 
bitter: kɑreːpɑic 
black: putungaij 
black: puːtuŋɑiɟ 
blood: te 
blood: teː 
blood: tɛ-lɛ wɛɟeri- 
blow: i-topuk- 
blow: iː-toːpuk- 
bone: toːɑ 
bone: toa 
boy: aka-koadoko 
boy: ɑkʌ-kɒɑdʌkʌ 
branch: choarol 
branch: cɒɑroːl 
branch: gud 
branch: guːd 
breast: iːd-koːʌm 
breast: kɒɑm-loːkɒ-pɑt 
breast: koam 
breast: koam-loko-pat 
breathe: auna 
breathe: chaiyet- 
breathe: cɑiyet 
breathe: ɔːnʌ 
brother: ɑr-doːtɒ 
burn: joi- 
burn: ɑkʌ-t\ɑ-ker- 
burn: ɟoːi- 
burn: puːgʌt- 
butterfly: pomʌlʌ 
calf: ab-chala-ta 
calf: ab-toa 
calf: ab-toaa-l-ar-doamo 
calf: ʌb-tɒɑ 
calf: ʌb-toːɔːlɑr-doːæmɒ 
cheek: iːd-kɒɑb 
cheek: id-koab 
chest: kuk 
chest: kuːk 
child: ab-liga 
child: ɑb-dɑrɛkʌ 
child: ɑb-liːgʌ 
chin: aka-koado 
chin: ɑkʌ-kɒɑdɒ 
claw: ong-kauro 
claw: pɒɑg 
claw: poag 
cloud: taawia-da 
cloud: tɔːwiʌ-dʌ 
cold: gurba 
cold: yelami- 
cold: yeːlʌm 
come: aun- 
come: kele! 
come: ɔːn- 
correct: dem 
count: ar-loap- 
count: ɑr-lɒɑp 
crocodile: birigi-toau 
crocodile: kara-doku 
crocodile: kɑrʌ-doku 
cut: chaul- 
cut: choal- 
cut: coːʌl- 
cut: cɔːrpɒ- 
cut: cɔrpɒ- 
cut: iti- 
cut: kobʌt- 
cut: koːp- 
cut: kop- 
dance: yem- 
dark: gurug 
dark: guːrug 
day: ar-lid-walaich 
day: bodo-le-lauri 
day: koarlo 
day: kɒɑrlɒ 
die: aako-li- 
die: ɔːkɒ-liː- 
die: ɔːkɒ-liːt 
die: wareli- 
dig: ar kop- 
dig: boang- 
dig: buːgmoː- 
dig: bug-mo 
dig: ɑr-koːp- 
dirty: lade-nga 
dirty: lɑde-ŋʌ 
drink: weːliɟ- 
drink: welij- 
dry: oːŋ-koːyɒ-ŋʌ 
dry: ong-koyo-nga 
dust: ar-l\ot-bubut 
dust: ɑr-l-oːt-buːbut 
ear: id-poku 
ear: iːd-puːkuː 
ear: poku-l-ar-dareka 
earth: goara 
earth: goara-da 
earth: gɒɑrʌ-dʌ 
earth: lade 
earth: pauoin 
earth: yoatara 
eat: me-/aka-wet- 
eat: mek- 
eat: nyaunto- 
eat: welej- 
egg: ar-maalaich 
egg: ɑr-mɔːlɑic 
elbow: kaapa-l-ar-naichakmo 
elbow: kɔːpɑ-lɑr-nɑicʌkmɒ 
excrement: bo-da 
eye: id- 
eye: i-dal 
eye: iː-dʌl 
eye: iːdʌl-l-ot-kʌit 
eye: iː-dʌl piːc 
eye: iːd-puɲu 
face: iː-tɒɑ 
face: i-toa 
fall: poato- 
fall: pɒɑtɒ- 
far: ar-l-ar-pilakmo 
far: ɑr-l-ɑr-piːlækmɒ 
father: dɑ 
father: da 
fat (n.): ɟiːri-dʌ 
fat (n.): jiri-da 
fat (n.): lubu 
fat (n.): luːbu 
fat (n.): yoano 
fear: ad-loat- 
fear: ɒɑrɒ-lɒɑt 
feather: oːt-piːc-dʌ 
feather: ot-pich-da 
few: keːtimʌ 
few: ketima 
fight: ɑd-leː- 
finger: kaaro-da 
finger: ketepi 
finger: keːteːpi 
finger: kɔːrɒ-dʌ 
fingernail: baado-da 
fingernail: oːŋ-bɔːdɒ 
finger: ɒŋ-kuːtuːr 
fire: bara 
fire: bɑrʌ 
fire: choapo 
fire: cɒɑpɒ 
fire: kauro 
fire: urugi 
fire: uːrugi 
fish: yɒɑkʌt 
fish: yoakat 
five: ar-pulia 
five: ɑr-puːliʌ 
float: oːdʌd- 
flow: choar- 
flow: cɒɑr-- 
flower: kaal-da 
flower: kɔːl-dʌ 
flow: ɑr-kɔːlɒ- 
fly (n.): buːmulɑ 
fly (n.): bumula 
fly (n.): nyipka 
fly (v.): id-aichata- 
fly (v.): id-ɑicʌtɑ- 
fog: pulia-da 
fog: puːliʌ-dʌ 
foot: kɑlmʌ 
foot: ong-kalma 
foot: oːŋ-pɒg 
foot: poag-da 
foot: ɑr-guːcuːl 
forehead: iːd-muːguː 
forehead: mugu 
forehead: temar 
forest: arem-da 
forest: ɑrem-dʌ 
four: idi-pagi-ke 
four: idi-pɑgi-keː 
fruit: cektɑ 
fruit: cektʌ 
fruit: cektɑ-dʌ 
fruit: chekta-da 
fruit: ruːkɒmʌ 
fruit: rukoma 
full: aka-keleu- 
full: aut-tepi 
full: ɑkʌ-koːleu 
full: teː-peː-ŋʌ 
full: tepe-nga 
girl: ab-joatojog 
girl: ar-yongi 
girl: ɑb-ɟɒɑtɒɟoːg 
give: oːɑ- 
give: oa- 
good: dem 
grass: yuːkuːlɑ 
grass: yukula 
green: alepait 
green: ɑleːpɑit- 
guts: jodo 
guts: ɟoːdɒ 
hair: piːc-dʌ 
hair: pich-da 
hand: deː-ŋʌ 
hand: ong-kaaro 
hand: oŋ-kolmʌ 
hand: ong-kolma 
hand: oːŋ-kɔːro 
head: ar-mun 
head: at- 
head: chekta 
head: ɔːt-cektɑ 
head: ot-chekta 
hear: i-dai 
hear: iː-dɑi- 
hear: ʌnyekʌn-dɑi- 
heart: auna-da 
heart: kuk-rata-bana-da 
heart: ɔːnʌ-dʌ 
heart: ɔːt-kuːk-tɑ-bɑnɑ 
heavy: niːnmʌ 
heavy: ninma 
heel: ar-guchul 
here: id koalot 
here: kamara 
here: kɑmɑrʌ 
he/she: \- 
he/she: eːgeː 
he/she: ɒl 
he/she: l- 
he/she: ol 
he/she: o-ng- 
hit: ad-le- 
hit: oara-toangg mo- 
hit: padgi- 
hit: paroicho- 
hit: pauroicho- 
hit: pedi- 
hit: pɔroico- 
hit: toai- 
hit: tochupu- 
hit: tulra 
hold: ene- 
hold: ɛne- 
hold: ɛnɛ- 
hold: mautri- 
hold: pochu- 
hold: puchu- 
hold: puːcuː- 
hole: ɟɑg-dʌ 
hole: jag-da 
house: buːd-dʌ 
house: bud-da 
house: cha 
how: (bʌ-)kinɑkuːg 
how: kichana 
how: (olia-)kinakug 
how: tan bujug 
hunt: loːbi 
hunt: ɑr-loːi- 
husband: ab-bula-da 
husband: ɑb-buːlʌ-dʌ 
husband: ong-i-re 
I: d- 
I: dege 
I: deːgeː 
I: do 
I: dol 
I: doːl 
if: ɑrwʌ 
in: ɑ 
in: kok tara 
in: -len 
in: -l-en 
jaw: aka-ichip 
jaw: ɑkʌ-iːcip 
jaw: ɑkʌ-toːɑ 
kill: ojo-oko-li 
kill: oːɟɒ-oːkɒ-liː- 
knee: ab-lo-da 
knee: ʌb-loː-dʌ 
know: id-lomang- 
know: id-loːmʌŋ- 
laugh: yenge- 
laugh: yeːŋeː- 
leaf: iː-tɒɑŋ 
leaf: i-toang 
left: koaro 
left: kɒɑrɒ 
leg: ar-chag-da 
leg: ɑr-cʌg-dʌ 
lie: aka-chalakti- 
lie: autau-raugi- 
lie: oaro-balegi 
lightning: wal-nga 
lightning: wɑl-ŋʌ 
lip: (aakaa-)pa 
lip: ɔːkɔː-pɑ 
live: buːdu- 
live: id-koato- 
live: id-kɒɑtɒ- 
liver: muːg-dʌ 
liver: mug-da 
long: pilakmo 
long: piːlɑkmɒ 
louse: centɒɑtɒ 
louse: pata 
louse: pɑtʌ 
man: ab-bula 
man: ɑb-buːlʌ 
man: buːlʌ- 
man: bula- 
man: roːtɑ 
man: rota 
many: ar-pulia-da 
many: ɑr-puːliʌ-dʌ 
meat: dɒɑmɒ 
meat: doamo 
meat: doːɑmɒ 
moon: ogar-da 
moon: oːgʌr-dʌ 
morning: tar-wanga 
morning: tɑr-wɑŋʌ 
morning: wa-nga-da 
morning: wɑ-ŋʌ-dʌ 
mosquito: tel 
mosquito: tɛl 
mother: ab-at-re 
mother: ɑb-ɑt-re 
mother: in 
mother: iːn 
mountain: baaroin 
mountain: bɔːrɔin 
mountain: bɔːroin-dʌ 
mouth: boang 
mouth: ɑkʌ-bɒɑŋ 
mouth: laiyo 
name: ar-ta-nga 
name: teng 
name: teːŋ 
nape: baarot 
nape: bɔːroːt 
narrow: kinap 
narrow: kiːnɑp 
navel: akar 
navel: ʌb-ɑkʌr 
near: lagia 
near: lʌgiʌ 
neck: loango toa 
neck: ɔːt-lɒŋʌ toɑ 
new: at-roakaich goi-a 
new: kɒɑloːt 
new: koalot 
new: ɑt-rɒɑkɑic goːi-ɑ 
night: ar-l\ar-diwa-g-ot 
night: grug choao 
night: gurug 
night: guːrug 
night: yelkʌ 
night: yelka 
nose: chaarnga 
nose: chaarnga-l-ar-jag 
nose: cɔːrŋʌ-l-ʌr-ɟɑg 
nose: lante 
not: tɒʌlɛ yɑbɒ 
not: ya-bo 
not: yɑbɒ 
old: ɑb-ɟʌŋi 
old: chauroga 
old: cɔːrɒgʌ 
old: jangi 
one: ubatul 
one: uːbʌtuːl 
other: aka-tedi-bi-la 
other: ɑkʌ-teːdi-biː-lɑ 
person: auloichit 
person: ɔːloicit 
play: iːdi-kɒɑic- 
play: idi-koaich- 
pull: daukra- 
pull: dɔkrɑ- 
push: id-udaoto- 
push: id-uːdɑotɒ 
rain: yum 
rain: yuːm 
rain: yuːm-leː-pɔːrɒlɒ 
rat: yaboa 
rat: yɑbɒɑ 
red: ceːrʌmʌ 
red: cherama 
right: biːdʌ 
right: bida 
ripe: tala-nga 
ripe: tɑlʌ-ŋʌ 
river: ɟig 
river: ɟigbɒɑ 
river: jigboa 
road: tenga 
road: teːŋʌ-dʌ 
root: ar-chag 
root: ɑr-cɑg 
rope: beːtmɑ 
rope: betma 
rotten: choaru-nga 
rotten: cɒɑru-ŋʌ 
round: ot-bana-nga 
round: oːt-bʌnʌ-ŋʌ 
round: oːt-liŋriyʌ 
round: ot-lingriya 
rub: luraicha- 
rub: lurɑicɑ- 
sand: bauroga 
sand: toaawar 
sand: toaower-l-oko-pa 
sand: tɒɑowʌr 
say: idi-yɒɑb- 
say: yaab- 
say: yɒɑb- 
say: yoab- 
scratch: id-ngali- 
scratch: ngautowa- 
scratch: ŋɔːtɒwɑ- 
scratch: pɔr- 
sea: bɑgɒtɒ 
sea: juru 
sea: taukau-kewa 
sea: toa 
sea: ɟuːru 
seed: ban 
seed: bɑn 
seed: i-dal 
seed: iː-dɑl 
see: id-badi 
see: id-badi- 
see: id-bɑdi- 
see: ten-la uya! 
sew: puːi- 
sew: ɟɒɑt- 
sharp: id-reːtɑ 
sharp: id-reta 
short: jodokma 
short: ɟoːdɒkmʌ 
shoulder: ab-paadia-toa 
shoulder: ʌb-pɔːdiɑ-toːɑ 
shoulder: taago 
shoulder: tɔːgɒ 
sing: rɒɑb-ɟɒɑrɒ- 
sing: roab joaro- 
sing: roap 
sister: ar-doto-t 
sister: ɑr-doːtoː-t 
sit: aka-doi- 
sit: ɑkʌ-doi- 
skin: ot-kaich 
skin: oːt-kɑic 
skin: ot-kɑic- 
sky: mauro 
sky: mɔːrɒ 
sleep: bɒɑndri- 
sleep: boandri- 
sleep: mami- 
sleep: mɑmi- 
small: ketama 
small: keːtɑmɑ 
smell: nurup- 
smell: ɒɑo 
smell: oao 
smell: ot-ɒɑo ɟɑbʌg 
smell: tong- 
smoke: maalaich 
smoke: mɔːlɑic 
smooth: liŋiriyʌ 
smooth: lingriya 
smooth: pulaowa 
snake: jobo 
snake: ɟoːbɒ 
son: bɒɑ 
son: boa 
sour: id-mɒɑkɑ 
sour: id-moaka 
spit: kɔːdɒ- 
spit: tubal 
spit: tubal- 
spit: tuːbʌl 
split: aka-toarlo- 
split: ɑkʌ-tɒɑrlɒ- 
squeeze: pate- 
squeeze: pɑte- 
stab: chaurpo- 
stand: kapi- 
stand: kɑpi- 
star: chalami 
star: cɑlʌmi 
stick: putu 
stone: bauroga 
stone: taili 
stone: tɑili 
straight: luːyuːtmʌ 
straight: luyutma 
straight: nogo- 
suck: id-noyo- 
suck: weːleːɟ- 
suck: welej- 
sun: baado 
sun: bɔːdɒ 
sweet: kɒɔiɟi- 
sweet: yoano 
swell: buːtuːk- 
swim: piːt- 
swim: pit- 
tail: picham 
tail: piːcʌm 
take: eːneː- 
take: ene- 
take: toap- 
take: tɒɑp- 
that: kɒɑ 
that: kɒɑbɑr 
that: koa 
there: kɒɑboːl 
there: koabara 
there: koa-bol 
there: nyaunga-te 
they: \- 
they: aangot 
they: l- 
they: ɔːlɒ-cit 
they: oloi-chit 
they: ɑ-tʌt 
thick: gaurodma 
thick: gɔː roːdmʌ 
thick: tulawa 
thick: tuːlɑwɑ- 
thigh: ab-poicho 
thigh: ɑb-pɒɑicoː 
think: doːi- 
think: doi- 
thin: pauda 
thin: pɔːdɑ 
this: kɒɑ 
this: koa 
thorn: chukul 
thorn: cuːkul 
thou: ng- 
thou: ŋ- 
thou: ngege 
thou: ŋeːgeː 
thou: ngo- 
thou: ngol 
thou: ŋoːl 
thou: ŋɔːlɒ-cit 
thou: ŋɑ-tʌt 
three: ar-abao-at 
three: ɑr-uːbɑo-ʌt 
throat: aarma 
throat: ɔːrmʌ 
throw: ar-waichoro- 
throw: ɑr-wɑicɒrɒ 
thunder: kuruda- 
thunder: puːluːgʌ-le kuːruːdʌ-keː 
tie: auko-rauno- 
tie: choa- 
tie: rauno- 
tie: rɔːnɒ- 
today: iːt kɒɑlɒt 
today: it koalot 
tomorrow: wo-nga-leny 
tomorrow: woː-ŋʌ-len 
tongue: aka-atal 
tongue: kalem- 
tongue: ɑkʌ-ɑtʌl 
tooth: ɑkʌ-tog 
tooth: tog 
tooth: toːg 
tree: aka-toang 
tree: ɑkʌ-tɒɑŋ 
turn: idi-gealo- 
turn: idi-geːɑlɒ- 
two: id-pauro-tot 
two: id-pɔːrɒ-toːt 
unripe: putunaij 
unripe: puːtuːnɑiɟ 
unripe: tɛripɑ 
unripe: teripa 
vagina: chudu 
vagina: ɑr-cuːdu 
vomit: ʌd-wɑkiɑ 
walk: kɒɑɟ- 
walk: kobale- 
walk: koːbɑleː- 
walk: nɒɑo 
walk: noao- 
warm: uːuʌ 
warm: uːwiʌ- 
warm: uya 
wash: ab-chat- 
wash: ɑb-cɑt- 
wash: lepi- 
wash: liːpi- 
wash: lipi- 
water: cuːlŋʌ 
water: iːnʌ 
water: ina 
water: ɑkʌ-cɒɑr 
weep: te 
weep: teː 
weep: teːki- 
weep: teki- 
we: m- 
we: maaloichit 
we: matat 
we: maut-/mongot- 
we: mɔːlɒ-cit 
we: mɑ-tʌt 
wet: aut-ina 
wet: ɔːt-iːnʌ 
what: miakat 
what: miːkʌt 
when: tan 
when: tɑn 
where: kinagör-a 
where: kiːnʌgər-ɑ 
white: alepaich 
white: ɑleːpɑic 
who: miad 
who: miːʌd 
wide: pɑkʌtɑ 
wife: ab-pal 
wife: ɑb-pɑl 
wind: poat-nga 
wind: pɒɑt-ŋʌ 
wing: id-koarmo 
wing: id-kɒɑrmɒ 
wipe: idi-rɒɑr- 
woman: ab-pal 
woman: ɑb-pɑl 
woman: koato 
woman: kɒɑtɒ 
wood: choapo 
wood: lɒɑkʌ 
wood: putu 
wood: puːtu 
worm: wiːlidim 
wrist: taugo 
yellow: taraolo 
yellow: tɑrɑolɒ 
yesterday: ong-ar-lu-nga 
yes: uba 
yes: yatya 
you: ng- 
you: ngaaloichit 
you: ngaungot- 
