all: mdakʰabo 
animal: aməgre 
ashes: arëwo 
ashes: arəwo 
ashes: arʊŋ 
ashes: arung 
ashes: utʰakʰare 
ashes: utëkare 
back: wunɨm 
bad: magre 
bad: magrë 
bad: mwakën 
bad: mwakʰən 
big: këpan 
big: kʰəpan 
big: kupa- 
bird: andëmbaleno 
bird: andəmbaleno 
bird: andʊmbwalino 
bird: andumbwálino 
bird: anëmbare 
bird: anəmbare 
bird: čenəŋ 
bird: chenëng 
blood: ayakone 
blood: ialuale 
blood: iarʊre 
blood: iarurare 
blood: yaluale 
blood: yarurare 
blood: yarure 
bone: čararɪŋ 
bone: čariŋ 
bone: charing 
bone: salïng 
bone: sarin 
boy: mantëkën 
boy: mantʰəkʰən 
boy: pise 
boy: pʰise 
boy: porimantëk 
boy: pʰorimantʰəkʰ 
breast: ngge 
breast: ŋge 
brother: atuk 
brother: atʰukʰ 
child: mamse pʰise 
child: mantakën 
child: mantakʰen tʰomatʰəkʰən 
child: mantëkën 
child: mantʰəkʰən 
child: tomatëkën 
child: tʰomatʰəkʰən 
chin: kʰasəmʊanən 
chin: kʰasimuanəŋ 
chin: kʰasimuanɪm 
chin: uaŋgəndəm 
cloud: bʊsʊru 
cloud: busuru 
cloud: manggenën 
cloud: maŋgenən 
cloud: nëmbisëne 
cloud: nəmbisəne 
cold: pʰʊbontʰʊkʰ 
cold: popant 
cold: wakʰarkʰa 
come: naniaka 
come: naniakʰa 
come: ya 
crocodile: ualami 
crocodile: uarami 
crocodile: walami 
die: patiprakëna 
die: patiprakʰəna 
dog: kauk 
dog: kʰaukʰ 
dog: məndanda 
dog: ´m ndanda 
dog: ndandʌ 
dog: ndanda 
dog: ndandë 
drink: arëm-wamka 
drink: arəmwamkʰa 
dust: kʰərarən 
dust: səŋai 
dust: sʊŋwaia 
dust: tsingaiə 
ear: bem 
ear: bɛm 
ear: kʰʊndʊm 
ear: kundum 
ear: kwandum 
earth: andi 
eat: am- 
eat: aməŋ 
egg: aung-k 
egg: aunkʰ 
egg: aw-ng 
egg: awŋ 
egg: ngang 
egg: ŋaŋ 
egg: ʊoŋ 
egg: uoŋ 
egg: wo-ng 
excrement: mïndi 
eye: rʰambri 
eye: tambli 
eye: tʰambli 
eye: tambri 
eye: tʰambri 
father: ano 
father: apa 
father: mam 
fat (n.): nambəɹ 
fat (n.): nambër 
fat (n.): nanbəɹ 
fat (n.): nanbër 
feather: pakenam 
feather: pakʰenam 
feather: wambwʊngri 
feather: wam-bwunggri 
feather: wan-biung 
feather: wanbluŋ 
finger: kwoŋbinəm 
finger: mbeng 
finger: mbeŋ 
fingernail: kwongbinëm 
fingernail: sunggëdung 
fingernail: tëng 
fingernail: ting 
finger: nʊoŋonʊŋoa 
finger: nungonangkëm 
finger: nungonungoa 
finger: nuoŋonaŋkʰəm 
finger: piŋɪm 
finger: pinïm 
finger: sʊŋgedʊŋ 
finger: tʰəŋ 
finger: tiŋ 
fire: alung 
fire: aluŋ 
fire: arʊnkʰ 
fire: arungk 
fire: ŋaɹ 
fire: ngar 
fire: uoɹ 
fire: wanaiarikitaka 
fire: wor 
fire: wɔr 
fish: amënggre 
fish: aməngre 
fish: amʊtʰare 
fish: amutare 
foot: namʊŋ 
foot: namʊŋkʰ 
foot: namung 
foot: namuŋ 
foot: namungk 
girl: mamse 
girl: ngamantëk 
girl: ŋamantʰəkʰ 
girl: tomanjhe 
girl: tomanse 
girl: tʰomanse 
girl: tʰomanǯe 
good: arandëkën 
good: arandəkʰən 
good: manjhikun 
good: manǯikʊn 
good: nandəkʰən 
good: nandëk n 
hair: bʊgməre 
hair: búgëmare 
hair: mbwikmaley 
hair: wabɪɹ 
hair: wábïr 
hair: wobɪɹ 
hair: wóbïr 
hand: iagri 
hand: nangri 
hand: ponom 
hand: pʰonom 
hand: yagri 
hand: yangri 
head: kʰaɹauaŋ 
head: karauang 
head: kʰarauaŋ 
hear: andɨ- 
hear: andï- 
heavy: ibinatakën 
heavy: ibinatʰakʰən 
heavy: iəbɪnkʰand kʰre 
heavy: ivi-karakën 
heavy: ivikʰarakʰən 
heavy: yëbïnkand kre 
he/she: mën 
he/she: mən 
he/she: nëmbe 
he/she: nəmbe 
hit: ti- 
house: nam 
I: ama 
I: ame 
I: mitep e 
I: mitʰɛpʰe 
kill: nankërarenantika 
kill: nankʰərare-nantʰikʰa 
knee: lugue 
knee: ɹokʰai 
knee: ʊrʊkʰe 
knee: rokai 
knee: uɹʊkʰe 
knee: uruke 
leaf: bərʊm 
leaf: bërum 
leaf: mbɹi 
leaf: mbri 
leaf: nambərʊm 
leaf: nambërum 
leaf: (nam)blum 
leg: am 
leg: namʊŋ 
leg: namung 
leg: nʊmbʊnaŋ 
leg: numbunang 
lip: shushumbarë 
lip: susum 
long: kaisekakan 
long: kʰaisekʰakʰan 
long: konggrantëkën 
long: kongkoronokën 
long: kʰoŋkʰoronokʰən 
long: kʰongrantʰəkʰən 
louse: mabawaya 
louse: nam 
louse: wakʰarakʰa 
man: pondo 
man: pʰondo 
man: pɔndɔ 
meat: aməgre 
moon: ambuɹ 
moon: amʊgʊɹ 
moon: kʰarɛpʰ 
moon: məle 
moon: mïle 
mosquito: orara 
mosquito: ualuale 
mosquito: uarararəm 
mosquito: wawarïn 
mosquito: wawarɨn 
mother: mari 
mother: nana 
mother: nënge 
mother: nəŋe 
mother: nïnge 
mother: nɪŋe 
mother: nungor 
mountain: ímbwang 
mountain: imbwaŋ 
mountain: uiŋ 
mountain: wing 
mountain: wïnggri 
mountain: wɪngri 
mouth: susum 
mouth: šušumbara 
name: ʊli ~ ʊri 
name: uli 
name: uri 
new: tëkasiparënë 
night: igomʊn 
night: igomun 
night: i kʰəmʊn 
night: í këmun 
night: iʊkʰəmun 
night: iukʰəmn 
night: yukëmun 
nose: maisit 
nose: masik 
nose: musuk 
nose: nangim 
nose: nangïm 
not: antakië 
not: antʰakʰiə 
old: apapʰ 
old: arəmßwo 
old: aßapʰ 
old: ate 
old: ŋaŋkʰopʰan 
old: pombosikre 
old: pʰondokʰopʰan 
one: beng 
one: beŋ 
one: mbia 
one: mbia- 
rain: bʊčine 
rain: buchine 
rain: bučine 
rain: mʊnʊm 
rain: munum 
rain: šʊenəŋ 
rain: shuenëng 
rat: iakrani 
rat: kasëkamar 
rat: kʰasəkʰamar 
rat: nʊnangar 
rat: nunanggar 
rat: yakrani 
rat: yakrauwi 
rat: yakʰrauwi 
road: io 
road: kaukinamëng 
road: kʰaukʰin-aməŋ 
road: yo 
road: yoge 
say: sʊara 
say: suarë 
sea: kʰʊŋgun 
sea: masak 
see: yamantʰa 
short: kʰaisekʰan 
short: kaisëkan 
short: karagëm´pënagëm 
short: kʰaragəmpʰənagəm 
short: kasakën 
short: kʰasakʰən 
shoulder: kʰab kʰenəm 
shoulder: kʰabʊkʰenəm 
shoulder: kʰabʊkʰinʊm 
sister: ʊɛrəme 
sister: man 
sister: manənkʰopʰan 
sister: mánënkópan 
sister: we.ermë 
sister: weɛrmə 
sister: werëme 
sit: nandaka 
sit: nandakʰa 
skin: naŋgəbəɹ 
skin: nanggë´bër 
skin: nangguni 
skin: nanguni 
skin: ngangi 
skin: ŋaŋi 
sleep: nankónchika 
sleep: nankónjhika 
sleep: nankʰont-šikʰa 
small: kïnjhëmbagëm 
small: kʰɪnǯəmbagəm 
small: sëmatëkantëkën 
small: səmatʰəkʰantʰəkʰən 
small: tamarkandigre 
small: tʰamatʰkʰandigre 
small: tëmaratëkën 
small: tʰəmaratʰəkʰən 
smoke: gïndigri 
smoke: gɪndingɹi 
smoke: kïnting 
smoke: kʰɪntʰiŋ 
smoke: nkïntën 
smoke: nkʰɪntʰən 
smoke: sokai 
smoke: sokʰai 
snake: konggondëkai 
snake: kʰoŋgondəkʰai 
snake: parum 
snake: pʰarum 
snake: parung 
snake: pwatʰənʊŋ 
snake: pwatënung 
snake: pwatʰʊnuŋ 
snake: pwatunung 
stand: nanïmka 
star: arenjo 
star: arum 
star: inancho 
star: inančo 
star: rëänjho 
star: rəänǯo 
stone: iai 
stone: ie 
stone: kambwak 
stone: kʰambwakʰ 
stone: yal 
stone: ye 
sun: mbwino 
sun: nʊmbiːo 
sun: numbio 
they: pupwe 
thou: emetakëpe 
thou: ɛmetʰakʰəpe 
thou: mi 
thou: tʰakʰ nte 
three: -elïm 
tomorrow: nakïmïn 
tomorrow: tʰʊmbʊn 
tomorrow: tʰumbʊn 
tomorrow: tumbun 
tongue: mënëng 
tongue: mənəŋ 
tongue: mïnïng 
tongue: mɨŋɨŋ 
tooth: sising 
tooth: sisiŋ 
tooth: sïsïnggli 
tooth: sïsinggri 
tooth: sɪsiŋgli 
tooth: sɪsiŋgri 
tooth: sʊsʊŋ 
tooth: susung 
tree: ioɹoɹ 
tree: lor 
tree: yirornggë 
tree: yoror 
tree: yɪrɔrŋgʌ 
two: kʰrupraɹ 
two: kruprar 
two: -(lï)par 
walk: kal- 
warm: alakʰarəkʰən 
warm: aləkʰarkʰe 
wash: tuku- 
water: alëm 
water: alïm 
water: alɨm 
water: arʊm 
water: arum 
we: panggeyambramnda 
we: paŋgeyambramnda 
we: panggïr 
wind: pʰʊpʰuan 
wind: pupuan 
wing: shusak nue 
wing: šʊsak nue 
wing: tënëmbrëgwe 
wing: tʰənəmbrəgwe 
wing: tʰʊmbrakʰəno 
wing: tumbrakëno 
wing: wantëmboi 
wing: wantʰəmboi 
woman: aŋɨno 
woman: anguno 
woman: aŋuno 
woman: anmandəkəm 
woman: anmandëkën 
woman: anmandəkʰən 
woman: ngan 
woman: ŋan 
yes: tʰakʰapʰe 
yes: takëpë 
yesterday: nagəmʊn 
yesterday: nagëmun 
yesterday: nakam 
yesterday: nakʰam 
yesterday: nakʰəmʊn 
yesterday: nakëmun 
yesterday: nakïmïn 
yesterday: nakɨmɨn 
you: i-pwe 
you: tak nte 
