all: älu 
every: älu 
ash: pwasaora 
ashes: pwasaora 
abdomen: ie	opwa- 
belly: ie	opwa- 
big: laha	loʔa	päine 
bigness: laha	loʔa	päine 
large: laha	loʔa	päine 
bird: mänu 
bite: ala 
black: pulu 
blood: Epu	ʔäpu- 
bone: suisuli	suisuli- 
breast: susu	susu- 
breasts: susu	susu- 
burn: uunu 
burn tr.: uunu 
cloud: uru 
cold: mamaudi 
come: lae 
come from: lae 
be dead: mae 
dead: mae 
die: mae 
dog: usu	ʔusu 
drink: inu 
dry: mamata	raŋo	ʔaʔate 
ear: EliNe	äliŋe 
eat: ŋaa	ŋäu 
egg: hoi menu 
eye: ma	maa- 
feather: ihu 
fire: duNe	duŋe 
fish: i7e	iʔe 
fly: loho 
fly v.: loho 
good: diana 
green: marawa 
hair: uhu 
hand: nime 
left hand: nime 
right: nime 
head: pwäu 
hear: kawai 
1 sg.: eu	in|eu 
I: eu	in|eu 
kill: haʔamaesi 
be knowledgeable: manatai	saai 
know: manatai	saai 
leaf: rEu	räu 
lie: eno 
lie down: eno 
liver: sae 
long: tewa 
head louse: pote 
louse: pote 
male: mwane 
man: inoni 
moon: waarowaaro 
mouth: dawa-	wawa- 
name: sata 
title: sata 
neck: lue- 
new: haalu	halu 
night: rodo 
nighttime: rodo 
nose: pw~Elusu	pwälusu 
adulterous: eta	’eta 
one: eta	’eta 
single: eta	’eta 
that: ine 
the: eta	’eta 
unprincipled: eta	’eta 
human: inoni 
human being: inoni 
person: inoni 
rain: nemo 
rainy weather: nemo 
red: noro 
path: tala 
road: tala 
route: tala 
root: imiimi- 
sand: one 
say: unu 
see: kerehi	leesi	lesi 
sit: iʔo 
hide: te7ete7e	teʔeteʔe- 
skin: te7ete7e	teʔeteʔe- 
sleep: maʔahu 
little: morumoru	riʔi 
small: morumoru	riʔi 
smallness: morumoru	riʔi 
smoke: pwäʔu 
star: he7u	heʔu 
rock: hEu	häu 
stone: hEu	häu 
swim: olo 
tail: ʔuʔiʔi 
this: ienini 
2 sg: i7oe	iʔoe 
thou: i7oe	iʔoe 
you: i7oe	iʔoe 
tongue: mea	mea- 
tooth: niho	niho- 
grind: rue	’e rue 
two: rue	’e rue 
go: awe 
walk: awe 
hot: madoro 
warm: madoro 
water: wEi	wäi 
1 pl. inc.: ikolu	i|ʔomu 
we: ikolu	i|ʔomu 
we₁: ikolu	i|ʔomu 
what: taha 
white: mero	reʔa 
whiteness: mero	reʔa 
who: atei 
who?: atei 
female: huʔe 
woman: huʔe 
yellow: saosaola 
distant: haʔa|tau 
far: haʔa|tau 
dull: hie 
heavy: hie 
serious: hie 
close: karaini 
near: karaini 
ner: karaini 
salt: äsi 
short: koukoule	ʔoʔorue 
snake: mwaa 
thin: mwarau 
wind: däŋi 
earthworm: mwaadule 
worm: mwaadule 
year: hälisi 
2 pl.: i|ʔomu 
ye: i|ʔomu 
you all: i|ʔomu 
3 pl.: i|k|ire 
they: i|k|ire 
where: itei 
where?: itei 
when: iŋa|n|ite 
when?: iŋa|n|ite 
how: ʔue 
how?: ʔue 
three: olu	’e ’olu 
four: hai	’e hai 
five: nima	’e lime 
broad: ʔaroka 
wide: ʔaroka 
wideness: ʔaroka 
fat: räkuhe 
thick: piola 
narrow: koko 
principal wife: huʔe 
wife: huʔe 
husband: poro 
his mother: nike- 
mother: nike- 
my mother: nike- 
father: ama- 
his father: ama- 
my father: ama- 
forest: meʔesu	wäpu 
woods: meʔesu	wäpu 
branch: sara 
stick: sara 
fruit: hue- 
flower: taka 
grass: hahalisi 
cord: äli 
rope: äli 
flesh: häsiʔo- 
meat: häsiʔo- 
grease: räkuhe 
wing: apaapa 
gut: opwa 
guts: opwa 
insides: opwa 
intestine: opwa 
intestines: opwa 
back: kolu-	puri- 
suck: ome	susu 
spit: ŋisu 
vomit: moa 
blow: iru	ooru	uhi 
breath: maŋo 
breathe: maŋo 
laugh: mwäsi 
laughter: mwäsi 
cogitate: neʔisae 
reflect: neʔisae 
think: neʔisae 
smell: nono wäsu 
sniff: nono wäsu 
afraid: mäʔu 
be afraid: mäʔu 
fear: mäʔu 
fright: mäʔu 
alive: mäuri 
be alive: mäuri 
life: mäuri 
live: mäuri 
living: mäuri 
hunt: haʔawasi 
beat: uʔi 
hit: uʔi 
strike: uʔi 
cut: hile	ihu	rofo 
hack: hile	ihu	rofo 
cut open: waʔa 
split: waʔa 
pierce: toromi 
stab: toromi 
scratch: käru 
dig: eli 
stand: taʔe	ure 
drop: toli 
fall: toli 
grasp: hele 
hold: hele 
hold in arm: hele 
squeeze: loosi	momo 
wring: loosi	momo 
throw: ato 
bind: pwäsu 
fasten: pwäsu 
tie: pwäsu 
tie up: pwäsu 
sew: täuri 
count: idu 
enumerate: idu 
number: idu 
tally: idu 
flow: ahe 
lake: lama 
ocean: äsi 
sea: äsi 
dust: wasawasa 
fog: waha 
sky: ileŋi	loa	salo 
bad: taʔa 
evil: taʔa 
rot: käsu 
rotten: käsu 
dirty: madaʔa	mwakanoʔa 
filthy: madaʔa	mwakanoʔa 
soiled: madaʔa	mwakanoʔa 
sharp: wawanuʔe 
blunt: komu 
damp: medo 
wet: medo 
right side: pwalopwalo 
left: mäu|meuli 
in: iɬa[ɬ]o 
inside: iɬa[ɬ]o 
and: na 
if: a|na 
