ankle: kudinyu 
ankle: nambiyë karëngën 
arm: mutiri 
arm: nama 
arrow: biburu 
ashes: cau 
ashes: caw 
ashes: cou 
ashes: shau 
back: tanyumbu 
back: tayëmbu 
bad: bare (yu) 
bark: ja-ewep 
bark: (ja-)ewup 
bark: lewep 
belly: nimbu 
belly: nimbu-tsu 
big: demaren 
big: dëmaren 
big: demarin 
big: domare 
big: you komon 
bird: ei 
bird: ey 
bite: ngawungguntan 
bitter: osom 
bitter: usom 
black: kafu 
black: kapu 
blood: awar 
blood: owar 
bone: ari 
branch: (ja-)yanggan 
branch: kai 
breast: nep 
breast: nep ou 
breathe: urima kurumi 
brother: bosi 
brother: nganini kam 
brother: on kake 
brother: wautuga 
butterfly: ei-kakoro 
butterfly: ei-kukoru 
butterfly: ei-kukuru 
calf: firnimbue 
calf: nambiy-ari 
calf: nambiyë-pir 
calf: picat ari 
calf: pirminbu 
cassowary: war 
cassowary: war(t) 
cheek: komtu 
cheek: oytu 
cheek: poe 
chest: bur 
child: wa 
child: wanggin 
chin: dicu 
cloud: inom 
cloud: koangan 
cloud: kungën 
come: moyu 
crocodile: waicon 
crocodile: wa(i)con 
crocodile: waičon 
crocodile: waison 
cut: tiruntan 
day: apkem 
die: dutin 
dig: aronggotan 
dog: anəŋgen 
dog: awanggan 
dog: awang(g)an 
dog: awëngen 
dog: awënggen 
dog: aweŋgen 
drink: mowin 
drink: muwuntan 
dry: ësei 
dry: kakara 
dry: kakere 
ear: faewnggen 
ear: faweŋgen 
ear: puanggan 
ear: pyawanggën 
earth: kapere 
earth: kapure 
earth: kaupere 
earth: kawpere 
earth: nangan 
eat: emango 
eat: emaŋo 
eat: emengo 
eat: icuruntan 
eat: mongujo 
eat: ngoumume 
eat: ngouwotan 
eat: ŋouwotan 
egg: koko 
egg: kuku 
elbow: nama-karana 
elbow: name-pu 
excrement: ku 
eye: karanggoa 
eye: karëno 
eye: karinggewa 
eye: kariŋgewa 
fall: jarunan 
far: auga 
father: mami 
father: niyai 
father: niyani 
fat (n.): monan 
fat (n.): muna 
feather: (ei-)u 
feather: ey-u 
feather: u 
fingernail: nam-anggan 
fingernail: nam-wanggan 
fingernail: namwaŋgan 
finger: nama-nga(i) 
finger: nambiyë wau 
finger: nambiye-wu 
finger: nambu-wau 
finger: name-wau 
finger: namo-wau 
finger: wau matawun 
fire: paɲ 
fire: pain 
fire: pai(n) 
fire: pa(i)ni 
fire: payŋ 
fish: niɲi 
fish: ninye 
fish: ninyi 
five: namau 
fly (n.): masafur 
fly (n.): masapup 
fly (n.): masapur 
fly (n.): mësafup 
foot: nambiyi 
forehead: picap 
forehead: pica:p 
forehead: picat 
forest: dufe 
forest: dugwaipe 
forest: dupe 
four: apera 
four: apëra 
four: apra 
fruit: i 
fruit: o: 
fruit: ou 
fruit: o(u) 
full: dudurun 
give: erome 
give: -jan- 
give: junggunan 
give: ɟuŋgunan 
good: nayjunung 
good: nayɟunuŋ 
good: ngajunum 
good: ngajunun 
good: nggayjunung 
grass: ondam 
grass: undan 
grass: yeyei 
green: keker 
guts: nimbu 
guts: nimbu-ni 
hair: fupiyi 
hair: fyufuyi 
hair: piopiye 
hair: pioupië 
hair: pioupiə 
hair: pyapiwë 
hair: u 
hair: yowum 
hand: nama 
hand: name 
head: tuni 
head: t(un)i-yinggan 
head: tuni-yinggan 
head: tuniyiŋgan 
hear: fuatro- 
hear: fuatrotan 
hear: puatre 
heavy: ere 
heavy: iri 
heel: nambiyi kerengen 
heel: namsu 
here: atene 
he/she: nga-ne 
he/she: nga-ni 
hit: ni-giume 
hit: niyunan 
hole: yape 
house: mo 
husband: nganon 
I: mene 
I: me-ne 
I: mi-ni 
in: arimten 
kill: yanwuntan 
kill: yauwuntan 
knee: namsu 
leaf: piye 
leaf: piyi 
leg: nambiye 
leg: nambiyë 
leg: nambiyi 
leg: nëmbia 
leg: nəmbia 
lightning: areu 
lightning: hareu 
lip: buetu 
lip: umië 
live: sip 
live: yosip 
long: mosar 
long: musa 
louse: ami 
man: onwatuya 
man: watuga 
man: watuwa 
many: ijüturu 
many: puar 
many: uju tuturu 
meat: youwi 
meat: yowi 
moon: patrau 
moon: pëstërau 
moon: petrau 
moon: potarau 
morning: urumuse 
morning: urumusi 
mosquito: bep(ë)ri 
mosquito: bipri 
mosquito: bueperi 
mosquito: mbyeyfiri 
mother: ngani 
mother: ngga 
mother: ng(g)a 
mountain: ugwe 
mountain: uwe 
mountain: uwi 
mouth: ari-apë 
mouth: arim 
mouth: ari-yape 
mouth: këray 
name: aror 
nape: patri 
narrow: kuikoi 
navel: bëtom 
navel: botom 
near: yotou 
neck: mauru 
neck: maworo 
neck: mawuru 
new: augau 
new: manjeren 
new: wansiyan 
night: orim 
night: urim 
nose: umiyapë 
nose: umiyë 
nose: unye 
nose: unyi 
nose: unyi yapi 
old: engkasiye 
old: kasiyi 
old: on kasiyi 
one: opainun 
one: opo 
one: upu 
person: on 
person: on(on) 
person: on(um) 
rain: ap 
rain: hap 
rat: ësom 
rat: kabeke 
rat: këbëke 
red: nonggo 
red: nunggu 
ripe: nuëngu 
ripe: nunggu 
river: pure 
river: wai 
river: yarim 
road: nip 
root: ibe 
root: ibi 
root: nii 
rope: ni 
round: kakpor 
sand: konen 
sand: konin 
say: anayandotan 
say: poruntan 
sea: fota 
sea: nggofay 
seed: o: 
seed: u 
see: kapr- 
see: kapre 
see: kapr-ung 
see: kapruŋgunan 
short: tutu 
shoulder: muteri 
shoulder: pari 
sing: yapi korotan 
sister: inggin ungga 
sister: kam matam 
sister: kam munjem 
sister: nganumar matan 
sister: uanumar 
sit: atradiatu 
skin: im 
skin: yowyim 
skin: yow yim 
skin: yoyim 
sky: koënggen 
sky: kuweŋgen 
sky: kuwinggen 
sleep: pem 
sleep: pembeta- 
sleep: pembetannya 
sleep: prunggame 
small: inggiwa 
small: ingyoa 
small: kukua 
smoke: ipum 
snake: ekapim 
some: pambest 
some: pambi 
sour: ikior 
sour: usom 
spit: aricung(g)un 
spit: aricunggun paturuntan 
stand: api 
star: taugap 
star: taugwab 
star: waror 
star: wëror 
star: woror 
stone: kara 
stone: kare 
stone: kora 
sun: omar 
sun: umar 
sweet: monan 
sweet: munan 
swim: anekote 
swim: aru-waro-tan 
tail: binteu 
tail: bintu 
tail: dum 
take: erunan 
that: bete(ne) 
that: bintini 
they: betonoxu 
they: kombi 
they: kumbi 
they: me 
they two: kaimbi pugwai 
they two: kainybi pugai 
thigh: kombom 
thin: pirwa 
this: ate 
thou: me 
thou: we 
three: namguai 
three: naunggaey 
three: naunggwai 
throw: yangganduntan 
thunder: wafara 
thunder: wafere 
thunder: wapëre 
today: manji 
tomorrow: oniya 
tomorrow: unegia 
tomorrow: uniya 
tongue: fiyarir 
tongue: piarip 
tongue: piyarit 
tooth: iti 
tooth: itini 
tree: ja 
tree: ja(op) 
tree: (ja-)yenggan 
tree: ya-yenggan 
tree: ya-yeŋgan 
tree: ǯa 
two: fuwai 
two: pugaey 
two: puguai 
two: pugwai 
vagina: adi 
walk: wane-meme 
walk: wa(r)- 
walk: waro-me 
wallaby: ugai 
wallaby: u(g)wai 
wallaby: uwai 
warm: namu 
water: yarim 
weep: imu 
weep: karangapo 
weep: karempo 
weep: karinggepo 
we (incl.): ngabepase 
we: ngama 
we: ŋama 
we: ngame 
wet: kainjan 
wet: kanjan 
we two: ngapa pugai 
we two: ngape puguai 
what: eme 
white: faumbwan 
white: faumgwan 
white: pambuan 
white: paumbam 
who: on 
wife: ngaimin 
wind: more 
wind: morë 
wind: mori 
wind: muri 
wing: paremi 
wing: paumi 
wing: paumië 
wing: paunge 
wing: paunye 
woman: ona wue 
woman: um 
woman: ungga 
woman: uŋga 
wood: yanggan 
wood: yang(g)an 
wood: ǯa 
yellow: yangan 
yellow: yanggan 
yesterday: peu 
you: kumbe 
you: me 
you two: pe pugai 
you two: pe-pugwai 
you: we 
