all: bugmag 
all: däruwa 
all: guḷgu 
all: warbain 
all: warban 
ankle: duḷggun 
ankle: duḷgun 
ankle: ɟuḷgun 
arm: ŋobur 
arm: ŋɔbur 
arm: waːṇa 
arm: waṇa 
ashes: dumuruḷ 
ashes: ganu 
back: dildɟi 
back: dilɟi 
back: dilɟiwa ŋaṛaga 
back: ŋaṛaga 
bad: muṛ\muṛun 
bad: ririmiri 
bark: galŋa 
bark: galŋu gandune\u̪ 
belly: gulun 
big: badala 
big: yindi 
bird: wa\in 
bird: waiyin 
bird: waragan 
bite: lawuma 
bite: laːwuma 
bite: laːwumo 
bitter: lirawarmari 
bitter: lirawarmir 
bitter: lirawarmiri 
black: gurŋan 
black: mɔːl 
black: Mɔːl 
blood: gulaŋ 
blood: maŋgo 
blood: mango 
blood: wuṛuŋgul 
blood: wuɹ̣uŋgul 
blow: buna 
blow: bɒ\yun 
blow: duŋguṛ\yun 
bone: ŋaɹ̣aga 
bone: ŋaṛaga 
boy: garagu 
boy: garágu 
boy: gormu\urmug 
boy: gurmu\urmul 
boy: yawurin 
branch: mɛrgu 
breathe: ŋari\yun 
breathe: ŋiri\yun 
brother: gud̪̪̪a 
brother: wawa 
brother: yugoyugo 
brother: yuguyugu 
burn: daŋalgguma 
burn: daŋalguma 
burn: maḷban 
butterfly: buṇba 
cheek: dagal 
chest: gomor 
chest: gumur 
child: yod̪u 
child: yud̪u 
child: yuɟuala 
chin: damunumun 
chin: da munumun 
cloud: maŋan 
cloud: waŋubini 
cold: gwiyiŋar 
cold: gwiːyiŋar 
cold: wiligwilig 
come: buna 
correct: dunuba 
crocodile: baṛo 
crocodile: dinbal 
cut: midd̪un 
dark: bugumug 
dark: waṛumug 
daughter: gaːd̪u 
daughter: gaːd̪u miäḷg 
daughter: gad̪umiälg 
day: daigunbuyi 
day: mälmidba 
day: milmidba 
day: walubuyi 
day: waːlubuyi 
die: diŋgama 
die: mɔgɔi 
die: mogoid̪iri 
die: mɔgɔiḍiri 
die: ṛagun̪ 
die: yubd̪un 
dig: bilama 
dig: biːlama 
dig: biːláma 
dirty: mɔi\miri 
dog: waḍu 
dog: wuŋgan̪ 
drink: ŋuḷgd̪un 
drink: wuṛgd̪un 
dry: muḷga 
dry: muḷgga 
ear: bud̪uro 
ear: bud̪uru 
earth: munad̪a 
earth: munad̪e 
earth: ɟulga 
eat: luga 
egg: laɲar 
egg: laiɲar 
egg: mabu 
egg: maibal 
elbow: ligan 
elbow: noŋgur 
emu: wurban 
emu: wurbaṇ 
eye: mil 
eye: miːl 
eye: mil barambar 
eye: mil giriŋiṇ 
face: bugu 
fall: gäḷggiri 
fall: gaḷggiri 
father: baba 
fat (n.): ɟugur 
fear: barariri 
feather: binbar 
feather: waːŋa 
few: lurgun 
few: waṛaŋgarg 
few: yaga daruwa 
fight: bunamiri 
fight: bunaramiri 
fight: bunaramĭri 
finger: ɟälg giri 
finger: gɔŋ 
finger: lugu 
fire: buyuga 
fire: ʔbuyuga 
fire: guɹ̣d̪a 
fire: guṛd̪a 
fire: ŋuɹ̣a 
fish: gwiya 
fish: gwiːya 
fly (n.): gadiŋali 
fly (n.): wurulul 
fly (v.): budd̪un 
fog: gaːrain 
fog: gaːṛain 
foot: ɟälggiri 
foot: lugu 
forehead: bugu 
forest: waiiri 
forest: yirbi 
full: daŋaŋ 
full: daŋaŋd̪iri 
full: galgaṇ 
girl: guruḷg 
girl: wirguḷ 
girl: yud̪u 
girl: yud̪u dawal 
give: gadd̪uḷo 
give: guruban 
give: wiːgama 
good: mäinmag 
good: ŋamaguli 
grass: mulmi 
grass: mulmu 
green: miḷgumin 
green: milgunin 
hair: mara 
hair: märuwad 
hand: gɔŋ 
head: lia 
head: mulguɹ̣ 
head: muḷgur 
hear: ŋama 
hear: -ŋama 
hear: ŋaːma 
hear: ŋaːme 
heart: ḍɔːḍɔrg 
heavy: durbala 
heavy: ŋunuŋ 
he/she: ŋaii 
hit: wudd̪un 
hold: gadd̪an 
hold: muḷgga 
hold: ŋaiad̪ama 
hole: dawaraŋ 
hole: daːwaraŋ 
house: bala\ 
hunt: miṇguma 
hunt: miṇgume 
husband: daramo 
husband: diramo 
husband: duɛ 
I: ŋara 
kangaroo: mulbia 
kangaroo: wiːḍi 
kill: wudd̪un 
knee: bun\gumu 
knee: nɛːbaḷ 
know: margi 
know: marŋgi 
know: maṛŋgi 
lake: gulun 
lake: niwaṛ 
laugh: gidgidd̪un 
leaf: män\ɟɛr 
leaf: man\ɟɛr 
leaf: wuruŋan 
left: ɟɛraŋgai\no 
left: ɲurul 
left: wɛn\go 
leg: baːgu 
leg: bälwag 
leg: wambal 
leg: waːṛ 
lie: yagur 
lightning: ɟäḷgar\yun 
lightning: miḷŋd̪un 
lip: barwain d̪urwara 
lip: d̪a 
liver: birila 
liver: ŋäldɟiri 
liver: ŋaldɟiri 
live: walŋa 
long: bamand\ 
long: lambiri 
long: wiːyin 
louse: miṇḍilŋ 
louse: minin\bar 
many: däruwa 
many: därwa 
many: guḷgu 
man: yʊlŋo 
man: yolŋo 
man: yulŋo 
man: yulŋu 
meat: ŋanag 
moon: ŋaḷindi 
moon: wirmu 
morning: magarmunamiri 
morning: magarmuramiri 
morning: munagumiri 
morning: munawumiri 
morning: munáwumiri 
mosquito: banamu 
mosquito: boroiɟ 
mosquito: buːruɟ 
mosquito: gan̪amu 
mosquito: guɲamaiṇ 
mosquito: miḷgmiḷg 
mother: ŋaːndi 
mother: ŋaṇḍi 
mountain: bugu 
mountain: waḍaba 
mountain: wumbaru 
mouth: d̪a 
name: yago 
nape: gạba 
nape: guba 
navel: giṇiŋgar 
near: gäḷgi 
near: gaḷgi 
neck: guba 
new: yụḍa 
new: yuḍa 
not: yaga 
not: yagu 
old: gargaraŋ 
old: murŋaram 
old: wuruŋu 
one: waŋgain 
other: wiṛibu 
person: yudŋu 
person: yulŋo 
person: yulŋu 
play: bul\yun 
play: maːḷaŋ 
play: ŋaluwa\yun 
rain: waldɟän 
rain: waṇbana 
rat: ɲigɲig 
rat: ɟiɲu 
rat: marawada 
red: migumiri 
right: dunubaŋo 
right: dunubaŋu 
ripe: bɔṛum 
river: baṇḍain 
river: maiyaŋ baṇḍain 
river: maiyaŋ baṇḍainɟin 
river: mayaŋ baṇḍain 
road: d̪ugar 
road: gaiɟal 
road: gaiɟäl 
root: dulburu 
root: gurga 
root: magar 
rope: ṛägi 
rope: ṛawala 
rope: walägwi 
rotten: barbamiri 
rotten: barba\miri 
round: dagalguṛiṛi 
round: dagalwuṛiṛi 
rub: rurguyun 
rub: ruruwuyun 
sand: munad̪a 
sand: ṛaŋi 
say: waŋa 
scratch: ṛaɟuṛaɟun 
scratch: \ɟun 
scratch: wiṛin 
scratch: wurin\ɟun 
sea: damuṛuŋ 
sea: doːgo 
sea: dōgo 
sea: doːwo 
sea: dɔːwo 
seed: maŋuɟi 
seed: muḷgur 
seed: murgu gaːyu 
see: nama 
see: naːma 
sharp: ɟinbuḷg 
short: dumbul 
short: guṛiri 
short: guṛiṛi 
shoulder: lambar 
sing: baṛg 
sing: baṛgbaṛgd̪un 
sing: daṛ\daṛ\yun 
sing: d̪un 
sister: yäbba 
sister: yäbbe 
sit: nina 
skin: ɟäḷgdun 
skin: ɟälgd̪un 
skin: baruwan ɟälgd̪un 
skin: galŋa 
sky: gunduṛu 
sleep: ŋura 
sleep: yugura 
small: gawan 
small: ɲumoːgunin 
small: ɲumɔgunin 
smell: numan 
smell: waŋgi\yun 
smoke: diliwur 
smoke: d̪iliwur 
smoke: ŋarali 
smoke: ŋäräli 
smooth: buyubuyu 
smooth: buyuwoyo 
smooth: buyu wuyu 
snake: ɟäḷgi 
snake: baːbi 
snake: yäḷgi 
son: gaːd̪u 
son: gad̪u 
son: gäd̪u daramo 
son: waḷguṛ 
stand: dara 
stand: daːra 
star: baḍɟu 
star: gaɲu 
star: larban 
star: yurbɔn 
stone: baːd̪u 
stone: bumbaro 
stone: guṇḍa 
stone: wad̪aba 
straight: dunuba 
suck: d̪imdun̪ 
suck: dimd̪un 
sun: walʊ 
sun: walo 
sun: walu 
sun: waːlu 
sweet: gugu 
sweet: wuŋai 
swim: waid̪un 
tail: bälwag 
tail: bälwäg 
tail: ṛabaṛi 
take: ɟau\un 
take: manaŋa 
take: manaŋi 
take: marama 
there: ŋunili 
they two: manda 
they: walala 
thigh: magar 
thigh: yuḍuŋgur 
think: gwiaŋa 
think: gwiaŋi 
thin: maragunara 
thin: wiri\yuna 
thou: niː 
thou: numa 
thou: nuraluru 
three: lɔrgun 
three: lurgun 
throat: maiyaŋ 
throw: ŋurgama 
throw: ŋurguma 
thunder: muryun 
today: gad̪ura 
tomorrow: boŋgoŋo 
tomorrow: boŋguŋu 
tomorrow: buŋguŋu 
tongue: mad̪a 
tongue: ŋaːnar 
tooth: lira 
tree: d̪äṛba 
tree: gaːyu 
turn: bilmarama 
turn: bil marama 
turn: bilyun 
turn: dawa\yun 
turn: ŋanɟala\yun 
two: buläl 
two: marma 
vomit: gagdun 
vomit: gagd̪un 
walk: maiɟmaiɟun 
walk: marɟi 
walk: waṇḍiri 
walk: waŋgam 
walk: waŋgama 
wallaby: mulbia 
wallaby: wiːḍi 
warm: ṛawagd̪iri 
warm: rawagd̪iri 
wash: lubd̪un 
water: gabu 
water: guɟaɹ̣g 
water: guɟäṛg 
water: maŋuɟi gabu 
weep: ŋadi 
weep: ŋad̪i 
we (excl.): naburu 
we (excl.): ŋanaburu 
we (incl.): limuru 
we (incl.): ŋilimuru 
we two (excl.): ŋiliɲu 
we two (incl.): ŋali 
what: na? naldɟan 
what: na? naldɟan? 
what: ŋa? ŋaldɟan? 
when: nad̪a 
where: wana 
where: wana? 
white: gaiwaraŋu 
white: wad̪ar 
who: yol 
who: yol? 
wife: galɛ 
wife: miäḷg 
wind: bawud̪u 
wind: ŋanda 
wind: wad̪a 
wind: waːŋi 
wing: binbar 
wing: waːṇa 
woman: daigaːwuru 
woman: mialg 
woman: miäḷg 
wood: buyuga 
wood: guṛd̪a 
wood: ṛamṛam 
wood: ṛawag 
woomera: balada 
woomera: biṛgu 
yellow: garar 
yellow: gundiɾimiri 
yes: ŋɛː 
yes: yo 
yes: yoː 
you two: numa 
