all: anuí 
every: anuí 
ash: ʔaho 
ashes: ʔaho 
abdomen: reváme 
belly: reváme 
big: emáva 
bigness: emáva 
large: emáva 
bird: mánu 
bite: aʔa 
black: vuati 
blood: rara 
bone: oro	ʔoro 
breast: tut	tut[a] 
breasts: tut	tut[a] 
burn: avu 
burn tr.: avu 
cloud: ahoaʔa 
cold: venína 
come: rama 
come from: rama 
be dead: ma7a	maʔa 
dead: ma7a	maʔa 
die: ma7a	maʔa 
dog: auna 
drink: anumi 
dry: máruáti 
ear: ina 
eat: ana 
egg: váʔu 
eye: masina7u	masinaʔu 
feather: vuru 
fire: mo7on	moʔon [a] 
fish: ijana 
fly: utuma 
fly v.: utuma 
good: kamusa 
green: mamaʔi 
hair: [u] ranu 
hand: vie	vére [a] 
left hand: vie	vére [a] 
right: vie	vére [a] 
head: varu 
hear: orani 
1 sg.: i[g]wa	igw~a	iwa 
I: i[g]wa	igw~a	iwa 
kill: muná 
be knowledgeable: anini 
know: anini 
leaf: ranu 
lie: ena 
lie down: ena 
liver: sine a7a	sine aʔa 
long: manaʔi 
head louse: ku7a	kuʔa 
louse: ku7a	kuʔa 
male: naʔu vurana 
man: na7u	naʔu 
moon: vurin [a] 
mouth: vo 
name: nata	natá-na 
title: nata	natá-na 
neck: toro 
new: ahujo	ʔahujo 
night: vara7a	varáʔa 
nighttime: vara7a	varáʔa 
nose: horo	hóro 
adulterous: tata	tatá 
one: tata	tatá 
single: tata	tatá 
that: nona	nuana 
the: tata	tatá 
unprincipled: tata	tatá 
human: na7u	naʔu 
human being: na7u	naʔu 
person: na7u	naʔu 
rain: unum [a] 
rainy weather: unum [a] 
red: marari 
path: rarin	rarin[a] 
road: rarin	rarin[a] 
route: rarin	rarin[a] 
root: iva 
sand: náhaʔa 
say: oʔa 
see: era7uma	eraʔuma 
sit: tuʔo 
hide: hi7i	hiʔi 
skin: hi7i	hiʔi 
sleep: tu-ena 
little: maraʔu 
small: maraʔu 
smallness: maraʔu 
smoke: savaʔu 
star: um	um [a] 
rock: va7a	vaʔa 
stone: va7a	vaʔa 
swim: ata 
tail: ha 
this: nena 
2 sg: awa 
thou: awa 
you: awa 
tongue: nia	néma 
tooth: woto	wóto 
grind: ruro 
two: ruro 
go: vera 
walk: vera 
hot: nanáti 
warm: nanáti 
water: rarum	rarum [a] 
1 pl. inc.: a7o	aʔo	iʔo	maʔo 
we: a7o	aʔo	iʔo	maʔo 
we₁: a7o	aʔo	iʔo	maʔo 
what: rosere 
white: vehúta 
whiteness: vehúta 
who: naʔu-sé 
who?: naʔu-sé 
female: vavína 
woman: vavína 
yellow: veraráu 
distant: manaʔí 
far: manaʔí 
dull: saríana 
heavy: saríana 
serious: saríana 
close: direrea 
near: direrea 
ner: direrea 
salt: ati waʔu 
short: kovavaʔi 
snake: jorova 
thin: ermasu 
wind: tivú 
earthworm: korombaʔa 
worm: korombaʔa 
year: taun 
