all: dic | diC 
ashes: gŋhǝl | gNh3l 
bark: ckɔ:p | Ckop 
belly: kǝt | k3t 
big: nto:j | nt~oy 
bird: cɛ:pm 
bite: kap 
black: blʔak | bl7$ak 
blood: bhi:pm | bh~ipm~ 
bone: ӡʔa:kŋ | Z7~akN~ 
breast: ntǝh | nt~3h 
claw: cǝnro:s | C3nros 
cloud: sagup 
cold: sŋɛc | sNEC 
come: bɛj | bEy 
die: datn 
dog: co:ʔ | Co7 
drink: ŋu:t | Nut 
dry: ho:c | hoC 
ear: ntakŋ | ntakN 
earth: te:ʔ | te7 
eat: ca:ʔ | Ca7 
egg: pŋlǝ:kŋ | pNl3kN~ 
eye: mat 
fat (n.): lʔu:s 
feather: sntɔ:l | sntol 
fire: ʔɔ:s | os 
fish: ka:ʔ | ka7 
fly (v.): hɛ:kŋ 
foot: ӡukŋ | ZukN 
full: tǝbe:k | t3bek 
give: ʔɔ:k | ok 
good: bɔ:r | bor 
hair: sɔ:k | sok 
hand: tǝkŋ | t3kN 
head: ku:j | kuy 
hear: gǝrte:k | g3rtek 
heart: nu:s | nus 
I: ʔɛй | E5 
kill: pardat | p3rdat 
knee: kuro:l | kurol 
know: panɛj | panEy 
leaf: sla:ʔ | sla7 
lie: daʔ | da7 
liver: ri:s | ris 
long: ӡre:ʔ | Cr3kN 
louse: cɛ:ʔ | CE7 
man: kra:l | sn7~oy 
many: ӡʔɔ:j | Z7~oy 
meat: sǝc | sEC 
moon: gcɛ:ʔ | gCE7 
mountain: lo:tn | lot 
mouth: mpa:kŋ | mp~akN 
name: muh 
neck: taŋǝn | taN3n 
new: pa:j | pay 
night: tǝpm | t3pm~ 
nose: muh 
not: pɛʔ | pE7 
one: nanǝʔ | nan37	nano 
person: sŋʔɔ̃:j | sn7~oy 
rain: mani:ʔ | mani7 
red: rŋa:й | rNa5 
road: nu:ŋ | nuN 
root: rʔe:s | r7~es 
sand: pasir 
say: pde:r | pder 
seed: si:p | sip 
see: nɛ:ŋ | nEN 
sit: gǝ:j | g3y 
skin: gtǝ:ʔ | gt37 
sleep: bɛ:t | bEt 
small: macɔ̃t | maCo*t 
smoke: cu:l | Cul 
stand: ӡiйӡǝk | Zi5Z3k 
star: prlɔ:j | prloy 
stone: batu:ʔ | %batu7	batu7 
sun: mat ӡiis | matZis 
sun: mat ӡi:s | matZis 
swim: lɔ:j | loy 
tail: snta:ʔ | snta7 
that: ʔaӡeh | aZeh 
this: ʔadɛh | adEh 
thou: hɛ:ʔ | hE7 
tongue: lnta:k | lntak 
tooth: lmu:й | lmu5 
tree: ӡhu:ʔ | Zh~u7 
two: na:r | nar	nār 
walk: ci:p | Cip 
water: te:w | tew 
we: ӡi:ʔ | Zi7 
what: ma:h | mah 
white: bjɛ:k | by~Ek 
who: bo:ʔ | bo7 
woman: krdo:r | krdor 
yellow: pho:k | ph~ok 
every: diC 
ash: gNh3l 
abdomen: k3t 
bigness: nt~oy 
large: nt~oy 
breasts: nt~3h 
nail: C3nros 
talon: C3nros 
come from: bEy 
be dead: dat 
dead: dat 
die: dat 
ground: te7 
land: te7 
soil: te7 
fat: l7~us 
fat n.: l7~us 
grease: l7~us 
lubricant: l7~us 
oil: l7~us 
fly: hEkN 
fly v.: hEkN 
left hand: t3kN 
right: t3kN 
1 sg.: E5 
be knowledgeable: panEy 
lie down: da7 
head louse: CE7 
male: kral 
much: Z7~oy 
multiple: Z7~oy 
several: Z7~oy 
flesh: sEC 
hill: lot 
title: muh 
nighttime: t3pm~ 
adulterous: nan37	nano 
single: nan37	nano 
the: nan37	nano 
unprincipled: nan37	nano 
human: sn7~oy 
human being: sn7~oy 
rainy weather: mani7 
path: nuN 
route: nuN 
hide: gt37 
little: maCo*t 
smallness: maCo*t 
rock: %batu7	batu7 
2 sg: hE7 
you: hE7 
grind: nar	nār 
go: Cip 
1 pl. inc.: Zi7 
we₁: Zi7 
whiteness: by~Ek 
who?: bo7 
female: krdor 
