all: nanëmënë 
ankle: otto segarru 
arm: ma 
arm: më 
arm: yaːrʌ 
arrow: fəla 
arrow: feraː 
ashes: mau 
ashes: ondo-wai 
ashes: ondo(wai) 
ashes: ontoro(man) 
at: dë 
at: na 
back: marʌ 
back: mokodu 
back: mokohu 
back: mokotu 
back: moqodu 
back: moxoxu 
bad: hanggëla 
bad: himi 
bad: ikëlo 
bad: lebaːm 
bad: nebaːm 
bad: pegho 
bad: peko 
bark: o-lang 
bark: o-rang 
bark: o-wa 
belly: yadele 
belly: yahele 
belly: yahëlë 
belly: yaherre 
belly: yarëlë 
belly: yarere 
belly: yatëlë 
belly: yatere 
big: dundum 
big: duntum 
big: kabam 
big: kabang 
big: kabaŋ ~ kabam 
big: kaban(i) 
big: kamam 
big: kaman(g) 
big: qabam 
big: xabam 
bird: aye 
bird: ayë 
bird: ayɛ 
bite: aɣe- 
bite: aghë- 
bite: aqe-i(-bo) 
bite: nanë- 
bite: nawəi- 
bitter: färë 
bitter: färə 
bitter: fedë 
bitter: petë(-xële) 
black: ebe 
black: noghombi 
black: noko-man 
black: nokombi 
black: nokom-nokom 
black: nokomom 
black: noko-mom 
black: nokong 
black: noɣombi 
black: noqomam 
blood: haː 
blood: ha(a) 
blood: nimoko 
blood: oggiːb 
blood: o(i)ki 
blood: oke 
blood: oki 
blow: mapëwë 
blow: mawë- 
blow: mawə- 
blow: mawesi 
blow: mawisi 
bone: bo 
bone: boːh 
bone: po 
bone: po(a) 
branch: akau 
branch: aqau 
branch: minsa 
branch: si 
breast: nëmbu 
breast: nime 
breast: nimë 
breast: nimeb 
breast: nimë-pëu 
breast: nombu 
breathe: eumau 
breathe: nimə 
brother: ara 
brother: araberɛ 
brother: axa 
brother: eneu 
brother: monya 
brother: ugwaxa 
burn: bloudike 
burn: borousike 
burn: honë 
burn: kraufige 
burn: polo-polo 
burn: pulofike 
burn: pulo-pulo 
butterfly: ai bumbu 
butterfly: ai-mangkungkung 
butterfly: aye-pumpum 
calf: oro-kim 
calf: oro-muxolum 
calf: orrʌgiem 
calf: orrʌ gommaːnu 
cassowary: aubangkë 
cassowary: aubaqë 
cassowary: a(u)pangke 
cassowary: këtëwari 
cassowary: manggung 
cassowary: mangkum 
cheek: kadu 
cheek: kahu 
cheek: katu 
cheek: qadu 
cheek: qaru 
cheek: tawa 
cheek: xasexa 
chest: nime 
chest: nimoko 
chest: nimoqo 
chest: yërëromëxoxu 
child: fa 
child: fa: 
child: ki 
child: pa: 
child: taipa (faːfaː) 
chin: ?aišorra 
chin: häisaɣa 
chin: häi-sagha 
chin: häi-saqa 
chin: hei-saga 
chin: sei-saga 
chin: xe-saxa 
cloud: manggo 
cloud: maŋgo 
cloud: mangko 
cloud: wau 
cold: him 
cold: him ~ sim 
cold: manah 
cold: nuqu 
come: me 
come: mëi 
come: më-i 
come: məi 
come: mele 
come: məwə 
come: mre 
count: päi 
crocodile: kaikulum 
crocodile: kaikurung 
crocodile: ka inkerum 
crocodile: kamënda:ka 
crocodile: qaikulum 
crocodile: qaikulung 
cut: akënë 
cut: nəi- 
daughter: miŋge 
daughter: omi 
day: da:i 
day: rai 
day: ya 
day: ya: 
die: hede(ke) 
die: hërë 
die: hərə 
die: sedenderoi 
die: seder 
die: tete(ke) 
dig: wäiboi- 
dig: wäiboi- 
dirty: niki 
dog: yoghu 
dog: yoku 
dog: yoku ~ yoɣu 
dog: yoqu 
dog: yorru 
drink: ama-him 
drink: anë-i(-si) 
drink: anesi 
drink: (bu-)aneisi 
drink: puančɛ 
dry: axëraukoxe 
dry: kalai 
dry: kalai- 
dry: kala-kala 
dry: karaukoxe 
dry: këlëng-këlëm 
dry: kërëng-kërëng 
dry: qëlëng-këlëm 
dry: xembekwoxe 
ear: amggai 
ear: äŋgäi 
ear: änggäi 
ear: aŋgɛi 
ear: angkäi 
ear: angkei 
ear: ängkei 
earth: kami 
earth: kani 
earth: kani(gëla) 
earth: koni 
earth: qani 
earth: qaniqani 
eat: ama 
eat: aman 
eat: ane 
eat: anë- 
eat: anə- 
eat: anei(-ko) 
eat: anë-i(-ko) 
eat: anëi-ko 
eat: anəi-ko 
eat: hunëi-sunëi 
eat: (r)aman 
egg: do 
egg: do ~ ro 
egg: eirʌ (eutʌ) 
egg: ojoro 
egg: to 
elbow: me-hele 
elbow: më-hëlëm 
elbow: meserre 
elbow: më-tërëng 
elbow: me-xu 
excrement: ëhë 
excrement: ëtë 
excrement: exe 
excrement: kendo 
excrement: qänto 
eye: ijoko 
eye: ijoxo 
eye: iɟoko 
eye: iyoko 
eye: yorraʔ 
eye: yorrembɛ 
face: bë 
face: bə 
fall: kahei- 
far: ahau 
far: atau 
father: adai 
father: aitäi 
father: arai 
father: aǯai 
father: ma 
father: meko 
fat (n.): eye 
fat (n.): mëlai 
fat (n.): yu 
feather: ay-ai 
feather: (aye) ai 
feather: (aye-)ma 
feather: aye-ma 
few: serem u 
fight: ham 
finger: ma-këla-këla 
finger: mɛ gera gera 
finger: me kala-kala 
finger: më-kë-këra 
finger: memau 
finger: më-mav 
finger: më qëla-qëla 
fingernail: me-mengkai 
fingernail: məŋgai 
fingernail: mënggei 
fingernail: meŋgeni 
fingernail: me-ngkei 
fingernail: më-ngkei 
fingernail: më-ngkëi 
fingernail: oro menggei 
finger: (oro) këla-këla = "foot-digit 
finger: oto kë-këra 
fire: i 
fish: ka 
fish: kaː 
fish: pa 
fish: qa 
five: mähä(mbai) 
five: mehembai 
five: mëhëmbai 
five: mëpëmbai 
float: yai-ǯai 
fly (n.): bento 
fly (n.): pendo 
fly (n.): pen(g)so 
fly (v.): naɣəi- 
fly (v.): naghëi- 
foot: odo 
foot: ottofɛ 
forehead: fëli 
forehead: furri 
forest: akela 
forest: akëla(-nolo) 
forest: aqëla 
forest: ëbungfau 
forest: na 
four: gurri 
four: këli 
four: kəli 
four: këri 
fruit: ani 
full: mä-mä 
full: mä-mä 
full: nena 
full: nenë 
full: nenëne 
full: udeboge 
full: wadeboke 
full: wande 
girl: meŋge 
give: amba 
give: ye 
give: yei 
give: ye-i-nyë 
good: faia 
good: foi 
good: foy 
good: nemeka 
good: poi 
good: wa 
grass: eku 
grass: kë 
grass: kə 
grass: uda 
grass: uk(w)a 
grass: uqa 
green: apenensi 
green: (bu)bebe 
green: bubengbengma 
green: bubenibem 
green: ofama 
green: ofeapu 
green: ofeninehinehi 
green: wembe 
guts: kabie 
hair: mɑ 
hair: mua 
hair: u-ibe 
hair: uiwe 
hair: uma 
hair: unima 
hair: (u-)yebe 
hair: yebe 
hand: fe 
hand: me 
hand: më 
hand: mə 
hand: mëfe 
hand: mefɛ 
hand: mɛgerʌ gera 
hand: me(pe) 
head: falëm 
head: faːrem (paːnem) 
head: fələm 
head: jum 
head: jung 
head: yum 
head: yung 
head: yung-ew 
hear: bodo-i 
hear: botoi- 
hear: podoi- 
hear: poroi-poroi 
heavy: ëhë 
heavy: ëtë 
heavy: həɣai 
heavy: hëghai 
heel: oro-sëxalu 
here: mana 
he/she: deya 
he/she: neyä 
he/she: nəyä ~ neyä 
he/she: neye 
hit: habë-i 
hit: wë-i 
hold: qoluwë-i-nyë 
hole: bulu 
hole: pulu 
house: falə 
house: falë (ø 
house: hut) 
house: imä 
house: imae 
house: ime 
house: iyme 
house: maloyme 
house: obe 
house: ongko 
husband: doh (torre) 
husband: molo 
husband: wa-molo 
I: deya 
I: deye 
I: dëyë 
I: dəyə ~ reyae 
I: diya 
in: ëi-nya 
I: riyä 
I: teyë 
kill: ho-i(-bo) 
kill: ho-i(-ko) 
kill: karoguwai 
knee: odo-hele 
knee: odo hëlë 
knee: odo-xre 
knee: oro-selem 
knee: oro-sëleng 
knee: oto-t(e)reng 
knee: reːheːre 
know: neiǯɛ 
laugh: rë- 
laugh: rə- 
laugh: te 
leaf: be 
leaf: fä 
leaf: fe 
leaf: fe(a) 
leaf: fe ~ fä 
leaf: ofɛ 
left: më li 
left: məli 
leg: (day) odo 
leg: odo 
leg: oro 
leg: orrʌ 
leg: oto 
lie: honoi-sonoi 
lightning: wangwang 
lightning: wili 
lightning: wiri 
lightning: wiri ~ wili 
lip: ëuwa bonäi 
lip: ëuwa bonei 
lip: ewgwa-poney 
lip: heuyaː bene 
live: wali 
live: wariːd 
long: heki 
long: hëki 
long: kogo 
long: koko 
long: koɣo 
long: teki 
louse: mi 
man: do 
man: doh (torre) 
man: domiya 
man: do ~ ro 
man: kelufa 
man: oto-oto 
man: ro 
man: to 
many: bumbum 
many: halëm 
many: hëlëm 
many: heleng 
many: neikai 
many: sedem (serem) 
many: tërëng 
many: tərəŋ ~ hələm 
meat: melem 
meat: u 
moon: ogho 
moon: oko 
moon: oko ~ oɣo 
moon: oqo 
moon: ʌrʌ 
morning: dene 
morning: tene 
mosquito: hengkäntu 
mosquito: hengkendu 
mosquito: sengkengtu 
mother: ana 
mother: anaː 
mother: menake 
mother: menakë 
mother: nake 
mountain: homungka 
mountain: mogo 
mountain: moko 
mountain: toro 
mountain: uli 
mountain: uri 
mountain: xomungge 
mouth: euwa 
mouth: ëuwa 
mouth: ëwgwa 
mouth: heuyaː 
mouth: \ogwa 
name: do 
name: hodo 
name: naro 
name: rahine 
name: to 
name: toto 
name: uno 
name: waro 
narrow: kiki 
navel: pulende 
navel: purinde 
near: nobe 
neck: hodo(no) 
neck: koto 
neck: qampi 
neck: sorrʌ 
neck: toto(no) 
new: hogholo 
new: hokolo 
new: hoɣolo 
new: hoqolo 
new: manëmfana 
new: (m)eme 
new: mëxolo 
new: neme 
new: nemë 
new: nëmë 
new: tokoro 
new: xoxolo 
night: deniai 
night: dëniai 
night: dəniai ~ reniai 
night: dindai 
night: diniai 
night: gindai 
night: miniai 
night: reniai 
night: teniai 
nose: yeypulu 
nose: yobei 
nose: yoi 
nose: yoi pulu 
nose: yon 
not: nene 
not: u 
old: ako 
old: do-patua 
old: do-rele 
old: hëna 
old: malë 
old: nale 
old: patua 
old: tëna 
old: torele 
one: ëmbai 
one: əmbai 
one: imbai 
one: mbai 
person: do-miä 
person: do miye 
person: do (miye) 
person: rotere 
pull: rawei- 
pull: yoboi- 
push: hurëi- 
push: hurəi- 
rain: ya 
rain: ya(o) 
rat: we 
red: hasai 
red: kasai 
red: miri 
red: nime-nime 
red: nime(-nime) 
red: nimë-nimë 
ripe: nime 
ripe: nimë 
ripe: nimə 
ripe: nimë(ng) 
river: wi 
road: mibu 
road: nibi 
road: nipi 
root: kambu 
root: oro 
root: qampu 
rope: ha 
rope: ta 
rope: ta ~ ha 
round: koba-koba 
round: koboughi 
round: kobouɣi 
round: kobu-kobu 
round: kopu-kopu 
salt: sɛ 
sand: ifaw 
sand: ke(i)si 
sand: këni 
sand: kiho 
sand: saba 
say: arega 
say: ëlë-i(-ko) 
say: ëlëilko 
say: ëlële 
say: ələle 
say: ërëiko 
scratch: ke- 
sea: nau 
sea: nau pu 
sea: pue nolo 
sea: umoxo 
seed: haka 
seed: (haka) ko 
seed: ko 
seed: nu 
seed: (o-)haka 
seed: (o-)taka 
see: ëdë- 
see: ədə- ~ ərəi- 
see: ëdë-i 
see: ërëi- 
see: ëtë- 
sew: haisai 
sharp: yomo 
short: fofo 
short: fokëm 
short: fokëng 
short: fonem 
short: foqëm 
shoulder: baqa 
shoulder: nadë 
shoulder: paxa 
shoulder: yaːrʌ 
sing: bɛ 
sing: (be) moka- 
sing: koiko 
sister: ara 
sister: axa 
sister: emäm 
sister: emɛm 
sister: moyna 
sister: ugwaxa 
sit: dumbo 
sit: nuë- 
sit: nuə- 
sit: nuieba 
sit: numbo 
sit: nuweibo 
skin: da 
skin: elan 
skin: ëram 
skin: erand 
skin: erang 
skin: ta 
skin: ura 
skin: wa 
skin: waː 
skin: wlam 
sky: kumbuma 
sky: yaku 
sky: yaku(-puma) 
sky: yaqu 
sleep: ijoku 
sleep: ijonggu 
sleep: iɟoku 
sleep: ke (tonore) 
sleep: neye 
sleep: yugu 
small: këding 
small: kendim 
small: mefa 
small: mele(a) 
small: mere 
small: mire 
small: qënting 
smell: kələm 
smoke: i-ji-qonim 
smoke: (i-)jo-konim 
smoke: i-ng 
smoke: i-ngko 
snake: ahakai 
snake: dami 
snake: ëhaqai 
snake: maːt 
snake: sami 
snake: tami 
snake: ware 
son: qëlu 
son: tʌ 
sour: hang-gëlë 
sour: manim 
sour: manim(-gëlë) 
spit: ëki 
spit: ëki-bu 
spit: ëuw-ëki 
spit: kenaː 
spit: ki 
spit: warofo 
stab: nëi- 
stand: amanum 
stand: anyu 
stand: auva 
star: dalo 
star: findelau 
star: ma(n)saka 
star: talo 
stone: duka 
stone: duka ~ ruɣa 
stone: duma 
stone: duqa 
stone: rugha 
stone: tuga 
sun: hu 
sun: su 
sun: tu 
sweet: yu 
sweet: yu (xei) 
swim: hiko-i 
swim: hikoi(-malere) 
swim: hiko-ma 
swim: sigoye 
swim: sikoi(-marete) 
tail: älëm 
tail: dəma ~ ramə 
tail: deme 
tail: dëmë 
tail: de(u)me 
tail: ramë 
tail: temë 
take: dëwë-i 
that: bele 
that: dike 
that: dikë 
that: nabe 
that: ndi 
that: ndi ~ ri(ki) 
that: nie 
that: pele 
they: meyadomiya 
they: naiyoye 
they: ndiro 
they: nendeo 
they: neyä 
they: nəyä ~ neyä 
they: neye 
they two: (d)ikë-be 
they two: nande-be 
they two: nëye-be 
they: weya embai 
thigh: bede 
thigh: bete 
thigh: pede 
thigh: pɛde 
thin: dara 
thin: hele-hele 
think: bënë 
think: merenibaː demabʌ 
this: daqë/bäqë 
this: (e)nda 
this: fexe 
this: nanie 
this: nda 
this: nda ~ ra(kə] 
this: neya 
thorn: isa 
thou: mə(yə) 
thou: mye 
thou: we(yä) 
thou: wëyë 
thou: wë(yë) 
thou: wə(yə) 
three: name 
throat: mariŋgʌ 
throw: qä-i-nyë-hi 
thunder: ku 
today: dakë-ya 
today: daqë-ya 
today: mana-ya 
tomorrow: wahena 
tomorrow: wapena 
tongue: faeu 
tongue: fäu 
tongue: feau 
tongue: feu 
tongue: feːu 
tongue: peu 
tongue: vau 
tooth: hëra 
tooth: həra 
tooth: icëha 
tooth: itëha 
tooth: itəha 
tooth: teta 
tooth: tëta 
tooth: xëra 
tooth: ǯɛ 
tree: no 
tree: o 
tree: \oha 
tree: ono 
tree: (\)ono 
tree: si 
two: be 
two: be ~ pe 
two: pe 
unripe: kolu 
unripe: qolu 
vagina: këngma 
vagina: kewah 
vagina: qëma 
vomit: mikä 
walk: dere 
walk: dërë! 
walk: ema 
walk: ema-lere 
walk: emang 
walk: ema-rete 
walk: enyen 
walk: ëyë 
walk: ëyë! 
walk: otoye 
wallaby: emäho 
wallaby: eme(ho) 
wallaby: fëreli 
wallaby: hamoi 
warm: do-isam 
warm: namue 
warm: naum 
warm: naumë 
water: bu 
water: bu ~ pu 
water: pu 
we: einei 
weep: aseiko 
weep: dime 
weep: hele 
weep: ijoko ibo 
weep: joxo-bu 
weep: rimei- 
weep: riməi 
weep: sere 
weep: timë 
we: eye 
we: mangkreban 
we: meimo 
we: meye 
wet: filepoke 
wet: filëpoke 
wet: filëuboqe 
wet: toereuboke 
we two: eye-be 
we two: meye-be 
what: inde 
what: maka 
what: maqa 
what: tahe 
what: tai(se) 
where: mba 
where: mpa 
white: au 
white: keleumom 
white: keleu-mom 
white: këlëu(mon) 
white: kələu(mon) 
white: keleumon(g) 
white: kereumon(g) 
white: qëlëumam 
who: ëndë 
who: hinë 
who: ndë 
who: sinë 
who: (we)sinde 
wide: käu-gäu 
wife: namie 
wind: alu 
wind: alu(-naume) 
wind: aru 
wind: boye 
wind: poye 
wing: dëmë 
wing: nodo 
wing: noro 
wing: noto 
with: -bële 
woman: miä 
woman: miɛ 
woman: miya 
woman: miyä 
woman: miyä 
woman: miye 
wood: o 
wood: yë 
wood: yə 
yellow: yanggo-yanggo 
yellow: yaŋgo-yaŋgo 
yellow: yangko(ma) 
yellow: yangko(pu) 
yesterday: wena 
yesterday: wena ya 
yesterday: wena (ya) 
you: mëyë 
you: më(yë) 
you: nemene 
you two: mëye-be 
