all: areŋ 
all: kummò 
big: dudi | dùt	dùːt 
big: duːt | dùt	dùːt 
bird: wigi | wigi-t 
bird: wigit | wigi-t 
black: kitik | kidi-k 
black: ŋòw | kidi-k 
breast: ǯuːd | boːl	buːl 
breast: ǯuːt | boːl	buːl 
cloud: mʌrgut | muru-t 
cloud: murut | muru-t 
cold: sudi | ɲaːɲiŋ-ɛ 
cold: ʒ̣awut | ɲaːɲiŋ-ɛ 
come: ʔkɔǯɔk | k=on-oŋa	lo-i 
come: lok | k=on-oŋa	lo-i 
cut: kiʌk 
cut: kitinek 
die: iyà | iy-e 
die: íyè | iy-e 
dog: wuí | wɛː 
dog: wus | wɛː 
drink: liyo | liy-ɛ 
drink: liǯo | liy-ɛ 
ear: usut | usu-t 
eat: ŋgʌn | ŋan-i 
eat: ŋʌn | ŋan-i 
egg: kiːt | kuyu-t 
egg: kuyit | kuyu-t 
eye: meti | mɛ-ti 
eye: metti | mɛ-ti 
fire: ú 
fire: ùs 
fly (n.): miɲik 
fly (n.): miɲiti 
foot: maːr | màr 
foot: mʌr | màr 
give: ti | sɛn-i	ti=ŋo 
give: tin | sɛn-i	ti=ŋo 
grass: terrí 
grass: tidi 
hand: auw | ao 
hand: wiː | ao 
head: ŋoːr | ŋor 
head: ŋɔr | ŋor 
hear: igɔi | igɛ 
hear: ʔsugɔ | igɛ 
heart: ʌmɔl | amul 
heart: ʔsʌmil | amul 
knee: kʌrgut | awrgu-t 
knee: ɔrgut | awrgu-t 
many: sɔŋ | terre-i 
many: tereŋ | terre-i 
meat: isa | ísá	ísáː	ɛssa 
mouth: kul 
night: waːr | war-dɛ 
one: kʌn | kor	koɾ 
one: kuːr | kor	koɾ 
person: ari | at 
person: ma | at 
person: ʌt | at 
road: taːr | tar 
say: ǯaːn | ani	ʓan	ʓaːn 
see: gil | g=on-ɛ 
see: gɔna | g=on-ɛ 
sit: ǯòká | ʓug-eː 
sit: ǯukun | ʓug-eː 
sleep: ʌmba | ŋar-i 
sleep: ʌmbaːn | ŋar-i 
small: ilidi | eli-t 
small: miɲ | eli-t 
snake: auw | ao 
snake: mɔrsúk | ao 
stand: gisa | orʓ-ɛ 
stand: ɔrúkun | orʓ-ɛ 
stone: kʌrna taːt | kada 
stone: kʌt | kada 
sun: arí | arì 
sun: ʌ̀rí | arì 
three: ičča 
three: ityà 
tongue: làːt | lat 
tongue: leːt | lat 
tooth: ɲisit | ɲísì-t 
tooth: ŋɛsit | ɲísì-t 
tree: gaːn | gàn 
two: wʌrri | warri	waɾ 
two: wurra | warri	waɾ 
walk: kɔssa | lu-i	war-ŋa 
walk: lɔss | lu-i	war-ŋa 
walk: luː | lu-i	war-ŋa 
warm: keddì | keːt 
warm: kiːt | keːt 
water: káal | kaːl 
water: kaːl 
white: ʔčénìk | eː-k 
white: ɛiː | eː-k 
woman: iː 
woman: iì | iː 
woman: pl idiŋ | iː 
ash: oruŋo	orŋo 
ashes: oruŋo	orŋo 
bark: gifir 
abdomen: tol 
belly: tol 
bigness: dùt	dùːt 
large: dùt	dùːt 
blood: áí 
bone: kiŋa-ti 
breasts: boːl	buːl 
burn: duː yɛi 
burn tr.: duː yɛi 
claw: okoloŋ-ot 
nail: okoloŋ-ot 
talon: okoloŋ-ot 
come from: k=on-oŋa	lo-i 
be dead: iy-e 
dead: iy-e 
dry: labi-t 
earth: ard 
ground: ard 
land: ard 
soil: ard 
fat: ɲima	ɲɛma 
fat n.: ɲima	ɲɛma 
grease: ɲima	ɲɛma 
lubricant: ɲima	ɲɛma 
oil: ɲima	ɲɛma 
feather: sígì-t 
fish: huːt 
fly: farrɛ 
fly v.: farrɛ 
full: bíɲʓí-tí	bíɲʓí-tɛ 
good: walni 
green: širni-k 
hair: sígì-t 
left hand: ao 
right: ao 
horn: ŋoːtu 
1 sg.: wa 
I: wa 
kill: šiːɲ-e 
be knowledgeable: ɲálì 
know: ɲálì 
leaf: áfól 
lie: amba ye 
lie down: amba ye 
liver: uttaw 
long: la-i	laː-k 
head louse: ši-ti 
louse: ši-ti 
male: má 
man: at 
much: terre-i 
multiple: terre-i 
several: terre-i 
flesh: ísá	ísáː	ɛssa 
moon: aiy-t 
hill: kada 
mountain: kada 
name: ŋat 
title: ŋat 
neck: ewe-t 
nighttime: war-dɛ 
nose: miši 
not: =aito	=to 
adulterous: kor	koɾ 
single: kor	koɾ 
that: na-ŋ 
the: kor	koɾ 
unprincipled: kor	koɾ 
human: at 
human being: at 
rain: ar 
rainy weather: ar 
red: árrá-k	árá-k 
path: tar 
route: tar 
root: igi-t 
sand: wùřú-k 
seed: tai 
hide: gɛr-a 
skin: gɛr-a 
little: eli-t 
smallness: eli-t 
smoke: marsu-k 
star: miɲa 
rock: kada 
swim: buːr-ɛː 
tail: buː-t 
this: i-ŋ 
grind: warri	waɾ 
go: lu-i	war-ŋa 
hot: keːt 
1 pl. inc.: wɛi 
we: wɛi 
we₁: wɛi 
what: namo-t	nomo-tɛ 
whiteness: eː-k 
who: na	na-rɛ 
who?: na	na-rɛ 
female: iː 
yellow: asfara 
distant: lao-ni 
far: lao-ni 
dull: kuːni 
heavy: kuːni 
serious: kuːni 
close: tiːn-i 
near: tiːn-i 
ner: tiːn-i 
salt: kiːbɛ 
short: gul 
thin: ɲáɽí 
wind: sò-t	sòː-t 
earthworm: wiː-t 
worm: wiː-t 
year: sana 
