all: suĕ porug 
every: suĕ porug 
ash: abux 
ashes: abux 
abdomen: tain 
belly: tain 
big: ayux 
bigness: ayux 
large: ayux 
bird: manuk 
bite: kuut	siŋüt 
black: suŋut 
blood: doya 
bone: turaN	turaŋ 
breast: sadu3	saduë 
breasts: sadu3	saduë 
burn: ninux	ñaux 
burn tr.: ninux	ñaux 
cloud: abun 
cold: madud	mobus 
come: nug 
come from: nug 
be dead: kobus 
dead: kobus 
die: kobus 
dog: kosoN	kosoŋ 
drink: nuoh 
dry: bodux 
ear: kojit 
eat: man 
egg: turuoŋ 
eye: botun 
feather: burun 
fire: opui 
fish: [i]kien	ikien	kien 
fly: bikabur	timirib 
fly v.: bikabur	timirib 
good: konak	pagux 
green: idip 
hair: boek 
hand: toNan	toŋan 
left hand: toNan	toŋan 
right: toNan	toŋan 
head: bak 
hear: kidiNah	kidiŋah 
1 sg.: aku 
I: aku 
kill: ñüu	ŋabus 
be knowledgeable: puan 
know: puan 
leaf: dawun 
lie: biroñoŋ	guriŋ 
lie down: biroñoŋ	guriŋ 
liver: atin 
long: omu 
head louse: gitux 
louse: gitux 
male: dari 
man: dayah 
moon: buran 
mouth: boba 
name: adun 
title: adun 
neck: tuŋoĕ 
new: baux 
night: Narom	ŋarom 
nighttime: Narom	ŋarom 
nose: nuN	nuŋ 
adulterous: ni	nikan 
one: ni	nikan 
single: ni	nikan 
that: inu 
the: ni	nikan 
unprincipled: ni	nikan 
human: dayah 
human being: dayah 
person: dayah 
rain: [i]jan 
rainy weather: [i]jan 
red: biriĕ 
path: aran 
road: aran 
route: aran 
root: at	bokah 
sand: pasir	sumat 
say: naŋ	tanen 
see: kirin 
sit: guru 
hide: kurit 
skin: kurit 
sleep: boĕs 
little: monik	sit 
small: monik	sit 
smallness: monik	sit 
smoke: asux 
star: bitaN	bitaŋ 
rock: batux 
stone: batux 
swim: naŋuy 
tail: [u]kon	ukuĕ 
this: itis̟ð̙̞̞ 
2 sg: iNan	iŋan	muu 
thou: iNan	iŋan	muu 
you: iNan	iŋan	muu 
tongue: jorah 
tooth: jupen 
grind: duex	duoh 
two: duex	duoh 
go: ponu 
walk: ponu 
hot: boŋuh	putiak 
warm: boŋuh	putiak 
water: piin	pin 
1 pl. inc.: ate	attĕ	kais 
we: ate	attĕ	kais 
we₁: ate	attĕ	kais 
what: oni 
white: budah	mopuk 
whiteness: budah	mopuk 
who: osi 
who?: osi 
female: dayuŋ 
woman: dayuŋ 
yellow: sia 
distant: juĕ 
far: juĕ 
dull: baat 
heavy: baat 
serious: baat 
close: sinuk 
near: sinuk 
ner: sinuk 
salt: garoĕ 
short: kodit	kodĕ 
snake: dipux 
thin: ridiĕ 
wind: sobak 
earthworm: ratuŋ	tomux 
worm: ratuŋ	tomux 
year: sowa 
2 pl.: iŋan 
ye: iŋan 
you all: iŋan 
3 pl.: iyox 
they: iyox 
where: tiŋ ki 
where?: tiŋ ki 
when: siniĕ 
when?: siniĕ 
how: onimun 
how?: onimun 
other: [a]kun 
three: taruh	tarux 
four: pat 
five: rimoh 
broad: dar 
wide: dar 
wideness: dar 
fat: puak 
thick: tabar 
narrow: sapit	sikitok 
principal wife: sowen 
wife: sowen 
husband: bonun 
his mother: sinĕ 
mother: sinĕ 
my mother: sinĕ 
father: sama 
his father: sama 
my father: sama 
forest: torun 
woods: torun 
branch: daan 
stick: daan 
fruit: bua 
flower: sara	suat 
grass: dux 
cord: taris 
rope: taris 
flesh: asin 
meat: asin 
grease: puak 
wing: [i]rad 
back: dug 
suck: ñuop	ŋisap 
spit: ŋujah 
vomit: ŋutah 
blow: yup 
breath: masuŋ 
breathe: masuŋ 
laugh: tauwix 
laughter: tauwix 
cogitate: saka ŋasuŋ 
reflect: saka ŋasuŋ 
think: saka ŋasuŋ 
smell: koduk 
sniff: koduk 
afraid: toru 
be afraid: toru 
fear: toru 
fright: toru 
alive: idip 
be alive: idip 
life: idip 
live: idip 
living: idip 
hunt: ñipa	ŋokaŋ 
beat: obox 
hit: obox 
strike: obox 
cut: ñopa 
hack: ñopa 
cut open: birieh 
split: birieh 
pierce: nijub 
stab: nijub 
scratch: gayu 
dig: karis 
stand: mojug 
drop: rabu 
fall: rabu 
grasp: bikaguŋ 
hold: bikaguŋ 
hold in arm: bikaguŋ 
squeeze: miset	ŋapit 
wring: miset	ŋapit 
throw: mout	ñokad 
bind: mökes 
fasten: mökes 
tie: mökes 
tie up: mökes 
sew: nopuŋ 
count: bibiraŋ	niap 
enumerate: bibiraŋ	niap 
number: bibiraŋ	niap 
tally: bibiraŋ	niap 
flow: siriet 
lake: danu 
ocean: raut 
sea: raut 
dust: abux	sapok 
fog: abun 
sky: roŋit 
bad: jaat 
evil: jaat 
rot: maduĕ	modam 
rotten: maduĕ	modam 
dirty: kais	sirida 
filthy: kais	sirida 
soiled: kais	sirida 
sharp: roya 
blunt: papu	tajü 
damp: bisah 
wet: bisah 
right side: toux 
left: bait 
at: daaŋ 
in: daaŋ 
inside: daaŋ 
and: duech	toban 
if: komu 
