ankle: oto = "leg 
ankle: otu-butu = "knee 
ankle: yengkeng 
arm: me(ka) 
arm: metre su 
arrow: pəra 
ashes: kipa 
ashes: kum 
ashes: tifa 
ashes: tipa 
at: na 
back: motosu 
bad: kepawe 
bad: peko 
bad: srai 
bark: se 
bark: sie 
bark: sye 
belly: esere 
belly: yase 
belly: yesëre 
belly: yesësë 
big: dele 
big: dere 
big: detre 
big: (eu)dele 
big: moti 
bird: ae 
bird: ao 
bird: awe 
bird: awë 
bird: awə 
bird: awër 
bird: awo 
bite: ekë- 
bite: ekə- 
bite: ekipo(ime) 
bite: nanë- 
bite: nanə- 
bitter: pete 
bitter: petë 
bitter: petə 
black: neko-neko 
black: nëko-nëko 
black: nəko-nəko 
black: nëxo-nëxo 
black: noko 
black: noko-noko 
blood: duo 
blood: sa 
blood: saː 
blood: saa 
blow: mapë- 
blow: mapə- 
bone: duo 
bone: mengkei 
bone: meŋkei 
bone: oro 
branch: mise 
branch: misie 
branch: misye 
breast: kong 
breast: kong dou 
breathe: enulu-te yepewe 
brother: aka 
brother: motona (older 
brother: udeke 
brother: yalise 
brother: younger) 
burn: elepiku 
burn: elzepuku 
burn: herefuxo 
burn: sakupuku 
butterfly: ae-kingking 
butterfly: au-kingking 
butterfly: awe (ki)king 
butterfly: eikukura 
butterfly: hau-gengking 
butterfly: safifa 
calf: kewaa 
calf: kowaa 
calf: kowa duo 
cassowary: su(a)le 
cassowary: suare 
cheek: katu 
cheek: qatu 
chest: kena 
child: yei 
child: yenining 
chin: sei 
chin: sei katu 
cloud: ma 
cloud: sero 
come: datə 
come: datëma 
come: datë mëwë 
come: me 
come: miai 
come: mime 
count: (mətə)bewə 
crocodile: ka(ng)kurun 
crocodile: kangkurung 
cut: nə- 
cut: pero 
daughter: womi 
day: daise 
day: dai(syə) 
die: diya tetepukoi 
die: no 
die: petepeku 
die: tëtë 
die: tətə 
die: teto-bugho 
dig: weipomie 
dig: wewë- 
dig: wewə- 
dirty: niki 
dog: yoku 
drink: anë-masin 
drink: anisime 
drink: buta-nimi 
drink: bute anisi 
drink: bute antesine 
drink: dusime 
dry: jrapuku 
dry: kelapoko 
dry: këra- 
dry: kəra- 
dry: kla-kla 
dry: krabuxo 
ear: benteki 
ear: betengkei 
ear: buntëkai 
ear: buntekei 
ear: buntëkei 
ear: buntəkei 
ear: bwëntëxei 
ear: pentakey 
earth: kani 
earth: kënda 
eat: ane 
eat: anë 
eat: anë- 
eat: anə- 
eat: ani 
eat: anine 
eat: anu 
eat: tum(peko) 
eat: tunepoi 
egg: ae-dong 
egg: au-dong 
egg: (awe-)don(g) 
egg: dong 
egg: doŋ 
elbow: me-butu 
excrement: ete 
excrement: etë 
eye: do 
eye: dou 
eye: ëndow 
eye: ndou 
fall: ketei poime 
fall: ku- 
far: baina 
far: denebu 
father: delei (mu)mai 
father: mëmai 
father: məmai 
fat (n.): mërai-bu 
fat (n.): yu 
feather: (ae-)pie 
feather: (awe) pie 
feather: fie 
fight: saŋkut 
finger: me-keu 
finger: me-keu dele 
finger: mə kwəu 
finger: me nyau 
fingernail: (meka-)keu 
fingernail: (mëka-)keu 
fingernail: mëka-keu 
fingernail: məka-keu 
fingernail: më mëngkëi 
fingernail: mə məŋkəi 
fingernail: mengkei 
fingernail: (moka-)keu 
finger: oto-keu 
fire: sin 
fire: sing 
fire: sin(g) 
fire: siŋ 
fish: ka 
five: mekasubëi 
five: mesi 
five: məsi 
float: ya 
fly (n.): kapo 
fly (n.): xafo 
fly (v.): nekë- 
fly (v.): nekə- 
forehead: paita 
forehead: patia 
forest: mela (buru) 
forest: mëra buru 
four: kri-mbei 
four: kri(mbei) 
four: sari 
fruit: eu 
fruit: masu 
fruit: na 
fruit: (o-)na 
full: kë-mewë 
full: (kə)mewə 
full: netewade 
full: wanda anapuka 
full: yase-wande 
full: yët-oande 
give: i 
give: ineme 
give: inëme 
give: inəme 
give: -iteme 
give: itëme 
give: mitime 
good: foi 
good: foy 
good: fu-foi 
good: (pë-)poi 
good: poi 
grass: ay 
grass: aya 
grass: ge 
grass: osi 
green: belu 
green: nisi(-nisi) 
green: yango-yango 
guts: eser kia 
guts: yeti 
hair: eu-pie 
hair: fie 
hair: nua 
hair: nuna 
hair: nwa 
hair: uNa 
hand: me 
hand: më 
hand: mə 
hand: meka 
hand: moka 
head: bëlengka 
head: bërangka 
head: blengka 
head: brangka 
head: brengka 
head: breŋka 
head: tenai 
head: tenay 
head: ton-yang 
head: tonyei 
head: ton-yeng 
hear: bet- 
hear: bətoe 
hear: bëtoë 
hear: boto- 
heavy: se 
heavy: së 
heavy: sə 
heel: oto temutu 
heel: oto tenutu 
here: menaye 
he/she: die 
he/she: dyëi 
he/she: maopopa 
he/she: ne 
he/she: -ne 
he/she: në 
he/she: nə 
hit: toipoime 
hole: bulu 
hole: buru 
house: mie 
house: mye 
house: ongko 
house: pale 
house: parë 
house: parə 
husband: do 
I: de 
I: dë 
I: də 
I: de ~ də 
in: a 
in: esuna 
I: -te 
I: wepebesik 
kill: topomie (?) 
knee: (oto-)butu 
knee: oto-butu 
knee: yengkeng 
laugh: dëtë dëwë 
laugh: dətə dəwə 
leaf: fëkei 
leaf: këpai 
leaf: (ke-)pe 
leaf: kë-pei 
leaf: (kə)pei 
leaf: (o-)kepai 
leaf: (o-)pe 
left: miri su 
left: miru su 
leg: oto 
lie: tëno- 
lie: təno- 
lightning: eli 
lightning: eri 
lip: auwa 
lip: eva 
live: wali 
live: wari 
long: tigi 
long: tiki 
louse: ming 
louse: miŋ 
louse: opi 
man: do 
man: do(yei) 
many: dopele 
many: eren-dofre 
many: tereng 
many: tërëng 
many: tərəŋ 
many: tërn-dofre 
meat: dotrulu 
meat: eu 
moon: oko 
morning: dene(-bu) 
morning: dene-mbu 
morning: yakau 
mosquito: se 
mosquito: sunggurung 
mosquito: sungkunung 
mosquito: sungkunu(ng) 
mother: deleinamen 
mountain: meko 
mountain: moko 
mountain: sëro 
mountain: soro 
mouth: em-beu 
mouth: em-blu 
mouth: em-bu(l)ru 
mouth: em-bulu 
mouth: em-buru 
name: do 
name: eduo 
name: seso 
name: wado 
nape: sanende 
narrow: kəkə 
navel: buntung 
near: eitouna 
near: wambe 
neck: naggu 
neck: nangko 
neck: seso 
new: manifana 
new: manipana 
new: neme 
new: neme-dopelre 
new: neplei 
new: nufrenia 
new: sekolo 
new: sëkro 
new: səkro 
new: suambai 
night: dën 
night: dən 
night: dene 
night: dënë 
night: dənə 
night: deneng 
night: denie 
night: tereng 
nose: timbko 
nose: timëxo 
nose: timëxo-buru 
nose: timiko 
nose: timoko bulu 
nose: timuko 
not: ambai 
not: pai 
old: lotëro petua 
old: sonyang 
old: wali-sna 
one: bei 
one: besika 
one: mbei 
one: mbei: 
person: de-tro 
person: do-tro 
person: yo-tëro 
pull: dawə- 
pull: yepo- 
pull: yëpoe- 
pull: yəpowə- 
push: susa- 
rain: bi 
rat: nangko 
rat: wafo 
red: ming-ming 
red: nimi 
red: nimi-nimi 
red: nimi(-nimi) 
ripe: kla-kla 
ripe: nimi 
ripe: poitre 
river: merewai 
river: (mere)wai 
river: moroai 
road: newaesime 
road: nifi 
road: nipi 
root: inso 
root: o-niso 
root: (o-)yanso 
root: yenso 
rope: sa 
round: këfo-bugo 
round: këmbou-këmbou 
round: kəmbou-kəmbou 
round: kepeo-kepea 
round: yembuboku 
round: yembubuku 
sand: kisi 
sand: tisi 
say: elime 
say: ere 
say: erë- 
say: erə- 
say: erewe 
say: erime 
scratch: kenëwë- 
scratch: kenəwə- 
sea: nau 
seed: iu 
seed: na 
seed: na-nggeng 
seed: na(ngke) 
see: te 
see: të- 
see: tə- 
see: tekene 
see: tenime 
see: tinbomie 
see: tumbëkare 
sew: seyəwə 
sharp: yëmo 
sharp: yəmo 
short: po 
shoulder: nate 
sing: dimi- 
sister: motona (older 
sister: n-eka 
sister: -udeke 
sister: yalise 
sister: younger) 
sit: ane kema 
sit: keime 
skin: ele 
skin: elo 
skin: ere 
skin: erë 
skin: erə 
sky: ma 
sky: mang 
sleep: ku 
sleep: ku tatanar 
sleep: yuku 
sleep: yuku tëtenoime 
sleep: yuku(te tenow) 
small: kia 
small: melre newai 
small: moti 
small: nanggeng 
smell: kərə 
smoke: (si)n-ifi 
smoke: sin-upu 
smoke: sunufu 
smoke: yupu 
snake: wale 
snake: wali 
snake: ware 
snake: warë 
snake: wari 
some: posi(te) 
sour: tinimi 
spit: eki 
spit: eki toipoime 
stab: në- 
stand: esu- 
stand: ësüë 
stand: yemime 
star: mea 
star: meya 
star: mëya 
stone: olu 
stone: oru 
suck: mape 
sun: soning 
sun: sonin(g) 
sun: soniŋ 
sun: su 
sweet: yu 
swim: deimimi 
swim: domimi 
swim: suku-suku 
swim: tsiki-tsiki 
tail: deme 
tail: demë 
tail: dëmë 
tail: dəmə 
tail: dëngmë 
tail: yoe 
take: dowime 
that: debeasa 
that: di 
that: dili 
that: nebeyasa 
that: nesa 
they: die 
they: ditëto 
they: domoseri 
they: -me 
they: në 
they: ne ai 
they: nedli 
they: neye 
they: simomai 
they two: ne-be 
they two: nedo-be 
they two: -ne ei 
they two: -pe 
thigh: kembong 
thigh: kombong 
thin: sərə-sərə 
this: beasa 
this: da 
this: dabea 
this: dëla 
this: na 
thorn: sye 
thou: -mbe 
thou: -me 
thou: we 
thou: -we 
thou: wë 
thou: wə 
thou: we(-besika) 
thou: wo 
three: nami(bei) 
three: namin 
three: naming 
three: nami(ng) 
three: namiŋ 
throw: kenye-nyemi 
thunder: warepa 
thunder: warfa 
today: dayaye 
today: menayaye 
tomorrow: dene 
tomorrow: wambete 
tongue: feu 
tongue: peu 
tongue: peü 
tongue: teu 
tooth: eti 
tooth: iti 
tree: no 
tree: o 
tree: ono 
two: be 
two: bë 
two: bi 
two: bo 
vagina: k(e)ma 
vomit: mike 
walk: ende 
walk: eseme! 
walk: ewë! 
walk: (oto-)tëmare 
walk: serai betewarema 
walk: sraibeitei 
wallaby: ayoqu-yoqu 
wallaby: (pauna) sakia 
warm: namu 
wash: suku 
water: bu 
we: dëtëtoro 
we: deye 
we: e: 
weep: demite dimime 
weep: dimi 
weep: dimi-pekodimai 
weep: dimite-dimiu 
weep: dimite-dimiw 
weep: ëndow-bu 
weep: (n)do bu 
we: -ma 
we: -me 
we: metreye 
we: motërana 
wet: kani-kani 
we two: e-be(ye) 
we two (incl.): -a 
we two (incl.): de-be 
we two (incl.): -pe 
we: we: 
what: alropei 
what: beasa 
what: biasa 
white: kere 
white: kërëu 
white: kereu-kereu 
white: kleu-kleu 
white: kulu-kulu 
white: kuru-kuru 
who: sing 
who: using 
who: wësin 
wide: kura 
wife: mile 
wind: alu 
wind: aru 
wind: haru 
wing: den 
wing: neto 
wing: nëto 
wing: nəto 
with: -përë 
woman: mile 
woman: milze 
woman: mire 
woman: mirë 
woman: mirə 
woman: mirie 
wood: dyë 
wood: dyə 
wood: iye 
yellow: yanggo-yanggo 
yellow: yangko 
yellow: yangko-yangko 
yellow: yangko(-yangko) 
yellow: yaŋko-yaŋko 
yesterday: dace 
yesterday: ene 
yesterday: we ya 
you: detro-dofre 
you two: -pe 
you two: we-be 
you: we 
you: we(-mosere) tëtoro 
you: we(-nekawe) 
you: wo 
