all: moi-moi 
and: se 
and: si 
animal: binataŋ 
animal: haiwan 
ankle: yohu ma aki 
ankle: yohu ma lao 
arm: batiko 
arm: gia 
arm: gia ma ǯiko 
arrow: ǯubi ma ŋɔfa 
ashes: fika 
ashes: noːŋ ma riha 
ashes: uku-ma riha 
back: dulu 
bad: jira 
bark: ahi 
bark: (hate) ma ahe 
belly: ŋofo lamo 
belly: oru 
big: lamo 
bird: namo 
bird: toko 
bitter: kɔkɔfi 
bitter: momali 
black: kokotu 
black: kotu 
blood: ao 
blood: au 
blow: iru 
bone: goka 
bone: gɔka 
boy: ngongare 
boy: ŋoŋare 
branch: maǯaga 
branch: sagala 
breast: isu 
breast: isu ma lao 
breast: isu ma ŋobo 
breast: susu 
breathe: so 
breathe: sosugu 
brother: hira 
brother: iyua ma dihutu 
brother: iyua ma ǯoǯo 
brother: iyu ma ɲira 
brother: maɲira 
brother: nongoru 
brother: ǯoǯo nonau 
burn: ho 
burn: oso 
burn: tabe 
butterfly: kumi 
butterfly: kumi-kumi 
calf: ŋoni-ŋoni 
calf: ŋuni 
calf: usi-usi 
calf: yohu ma isu 
cheek: waŋ 
chest: isu 
child: haiwan ma ŋofa 
child: ngofa 
child: ŋofa 
child: ŋɔfa 
child: ŋofa maɲira 
child: ŋɔfa ma ǯoǯo 
chin: oko 
chin: ɔko 
claw: kuku 
claw: ǯuǯum 
cloud: kamo 
cloud: lobi 
cold: alo 
cold: goga 
come: haro 
come: ino 
come: yado 
crocodile: soma 
cut: tofo 
cut: tola 
daughter: ŋɔfa fafayaʔ 
daughter: ŋofa fofoya 
day: sita 
day: wai 
day: waŋe 
day: wange-lamo 
die: sone 
die: sɔni 
dig: fai 
dig: fay 
dog: kaso 
dog: kɑso 
drink: oyo 
drink: ɔyɔ 
drink: yuru 
dry: hotu 
dry: hoturiŋa 
dry: riŋa 
dry: riŋa (hotu) 
ear: ŋao 
ear: ŋau 
ear: nga(w)u 
ear: ŋawu 
earth: hale 
eat: oyo 
eat: ɔyɔ 
egg: gohi 
egg: gosi 
elbow: gia ma buku 
emu: kasawari 
emu: kasuwari 
excrement: iho 
eye: lako 
eye: la(k)o 
eye: lao 
eye: lao ma gɔgɔ 
eye: lau ma gogo 
face: gai 
far: gulu 
father: papa 
fat (n.): gaǯi 
fat (n.): lamo 
feather: gogo 
feather: ma pila 
few: kenebo 
few: kinibo 
finger: gia-ma-ŋoda 
finger: gia ma raga 
finger: maŋɔda 
fingernail: jungu 
fingernail: ǯuǯum 
fire: hitu 
fire: roriyat 
fire: ruria 
fire: uku 
fish: ɲao 
fish: ɲau 
fish: nyao 
fish: nyau 
five: rɔmɔtɔha 
five: romtoha 
flower: buŋa 
flower: saya 
flow: yufi 
fly (n.): gufu 
foot: saha 
foot: yohu 
forehead: ani 
forehead: aniː 
forest: banga 
forest: baŋa 
forest: boŋa 
four: raha 
four: ra-ha 
four: rɔhɔ 
fruit: masɔfo 
fruit: sofo 
full: yoma 
full: yɔma 
girl: ŋofa fofoya kokene 
give: filaŋ 
give: filaːŋ 
give: toa 
give: tɔa 
good: laha 
grass: gofu 
grass: ino 
green: iǯo 
hair: gogo 
hair: gɔgɔ 
hair: haiwan ma gogo 
hair: hutu 
hand: gia 
hand: gia ma saha 
head: dofolo 
head: dofɔlo 
hear: baso 
hear: bɑso 
heart: gate 
heart: ɲiŋa 
heart: kusi-kusi 
here: kare 
here: kariʔ 
he/she: mo- 
he/she: tino 
he/she: una 
he/she: wo- 
hit: čako 
hit: čɑko 
hit: dahe 
hit: dahi 
hit: fa 
house: fola 
house: fɔla 
how: gohi-mega 
how: təbiʔ 
husband: nonau 
husband: nonau (ra) 
husband: ra 
I: faŋare 
I: faǯaro 
in: doya 
I: ŋori 
I: ŋori-faŋari 
in: tɔ ma doya 
kill: gahi sɔsɔni 
kill: koru 
knee: buku-buku 
knee: yohu ma buku 
know: waro 
lake: ŋolo hotu 
laugh: ohe 
laugh: ɔhi 
leaf: marao 
leaf: marauː 
leaf: rau 
left: gubaei 
left: kobali 
left: kubali 
leg: yohu 
lie: bəlutuyaŋ 
lie: malule 
lie: taŋo 
lightning: bɛla-bɛla 
lip: liso 
lip: moda ma liso 
live: oahu 
live: ohu 
liver: gate 
liver: gate ma kokotu 
liver: kosi-kosi 
long: gaw 
long: gira 
long: suru 
louse: gan 
louse: gan na gosi 
louse: kaso na gan 
man: manusia nonauʔ 
man: nanauʔ 
man: nonau 
many: dofu 
meat: rehe 
meat: rɛhɛ 
moon: ora 
moon: ɔra 
mosquito: gofila 
mosquito: sisi 
mother: yaya 
mountain: buku 
mountain: buku kene 
mountain: buku kɔkɛnɛ 
mountain: kie 
mountain: kie-kiye 
mouth: moda 
mouth: mɔda 
name: ronga 
name: roŋa 
name: rɔŋa 
narrow: woha-ua 
narrow: wɔha uwa 
navel: otu 
near: seba 
near: seba ino 
neck: sako 
neck: sɑko 
new: fakiči 
new: kiau 
new: sung 
new: suŋi 
new: suŋ-suŋ 
night: sifutu 
nose: ngun(u) 
not: rewa 
not: ua 
not: uwa 
old: simo 
old: simu 
one: rimai 
one: rimoi 
person: mansia 
person: manusia 
play: bisi 
play: biso 
play: toniru 
rain: boha 
rain: bɔsa 
rain: boso 
rat: ŋuti 
rat: ŋuti huhu 
rat: ŋuti lamo 
red: kohori 
right: guɲira 
right: koɲira 
right: kunyira 
ripe: yom 
ripe: yoːm maruwa 
ripe: yoːm rai 
river: ake 
river: guki 
river: mote guhi 
river: ŋuai ake 
road: laliŋa 
road: liŋa lamo 
root: hutu 
root: mo-utu 
root: utu 
rope: gumi 
round: folulu 
salt: gasi 
sand: ui 
sand: u-iː 
say: bičara 
say: kalam 
say: pəksan 
say: waǯi 
sea: lua-lua 
sea: momo-u 
sea: mote bau 
sea: ngolo 
sea: ŋolo 
sea: ŋɔlɔ 
seed: fin 
seed: muhi 
see: hoda 
see: hɔda 
see: lila 
sew: čako 
sharp: paha 
short: marari 
short: podo 
short: pɔdɔ 
short: pulɛča 
shoulder: efa 
shoulder: kefe 
shoulder: kɛfɛ 
sing: ɲaɲi 
sister: fira 
sister: fira ma dihutu 
sister: fira ma ɲira 
sister: fira ma ǯoǯo 
sister: maɲira 
sister: ǯoǯo fofoya 
sit: torini 
sit: turine 
skin: ahi 
sky: tufa 
sleep: otu 
small: kene 
small: kɛnɛ 
smell: maŋiti 
smoke: ɲofo 
smoke: ɲɔfɔ 
snake: ega 
snake: yega 
son: ŋofa nonau 
son: ŋɔfa nonauʔ 
sour: kokofi 
sour: kɔkɔfi 
spit: kokehe 
spit: kɔkɛhɛ 
spit: ŋoči 
spit: nguci 
spit: ŋuči 
squeeze: koleto 
squeeze: poloso 
squeeze: ǯɔhɔ 
stand: koko 
star: ngoma 
star: ŋoma 
star: ŋɔma tɔ ma tufa 
stone: mafo 
stone: mafu 
stone: mare 
straight: loa 
straight: lɔa-lɔa 
sun: wange 
sun: waŋe ma lako lau 
sun: waŋi ma lao 
swim: koyafu 
swim: tobo 
tail: bi 
tail: bie 
tail: bi\i 
tail: ma bi 
take: oro 
take: ɔrɔ 
take: tori 
that: ge 
that: ta 
there: kataʔ 
they: ona 
they: ɔna 
they: yo- 
thick: kofiri 
thigh: pala-pala 
thin: hina 
think: fikir 
think: suɲiŋa 
think: taksiri 
thin: kurus 
thin: rɛhɛ uwa 
thin: rɛhɛ ǯira 
this: nare 
this: re 
thou: ŋona 
thou: ŋɔna 
thou: ŋoni 
thou: no- 
thou: ǯo 
three: ra-aŋe 
three: r-ange 
three: raŋe 
throat: loǯo-loǯo 
throat: sako 
throat: sɑko 
thunder: doturu 
tie: kokoni 
tie: kone 
tie: tobe 
today: naŋe re 
today: waŋi naŋi 
tomorrow: difutu 
tongue: aki 
tooth: ing 
tooth: iːŋ 
tooth: iːŋwaŋ 
tooth: maŋoli 
tree: hate 
tree: luto 
tree: matiti 
two: malofo 
two: ma lofo 
unripe: kiaomoǯo 
unripe: kohu 
unripe: yoːm yaŋ 
vagina: tirɔ 
vagina: yako 
walk: tagi 
walk: tɑgi 
warm: sahu 
warm: sosahu 
wash: mahogo 
wash: mahɔko 
wash: roca 
wash: uju 
water: ake 
water: ake ma lao 
water: ake ma lau 
water: ŋuai ma hutu 
weep: lao ma oŋo 
weep: ɔŋo 
weep: reke 
weep: reki 
we (excl.): faŋore ŋom 
we (excl.): ŋomi moi-moi 
we (incl.): fo- 
we (incl.): ŋom 
we (incl.): ŋomi 
we (incl.): ngone 
we (incl.): ŋoni 
we: mo- 
we: ngomi 
wet: hɔbɑ 
wet: hobo 
wet: loleke 
wet: obo 
what: kabiʔ 
what: mega 
when: fio 
when: timpo mega 
where: kabe 
where: kabé 
where: kabiʔ 
white: bobulo 
white: bubulau 
white: budo 
white: bulo 
who: nage 
who: nagi 
wide: wɔha 
wide: wola 
wife: fayaʔ 
wife: fofoya 
wife: fofoya (foya) 
wind: kore 
wing: goluhu 
wing: maguluhu 
wing: pila 
with: se 
with: si 
woman: fafayaʔ 
woman: fayá 
woman: fofoya 
woman: manusia fafayaʔ 
wood: hate 
wood: luto 
wood: lutɔ 
worm: koltidi 
worm: kultidi 
year: taon 
year: taun 
yellow: korači 
yellow: kuraci 
yellow: kurači 
yes: o-e 
yes: təgi 
yesterday: nigo 
yes: ǯo 
you: no- 
