animal: min̪a 
ankle: konto-mila 
arm: pun̪t̪a 
ashes: put̪ca 
back: kiga-ŋaŋka 
bad: waya 
bark: yuku wati 
belly: ŋaŋka 
belly: t̪upi 
big: yuko 
bird: min̪a t̪uci 
bite: pat̪a 
black: ŋun̪ca 
blood: kamu 
blood: n̪epe 
blow: wuʔa 
bone: ŋate 
boy: pama man̪t̪ayan 
boy: pukpe koɲcen̪ 
boy: pukpe moŋkom 
breast: paba 
brother: ŋat̪ake 
brother: ŋat̪uɲe 
burn: paɲci 
butterfly: yuku kon̪d̪e 
butterfly: yuku ŋuːyumba 
calf: konto 
cheek: walu-manta 
chest: umu 
child: pukpe 
chin: t̪epa 
cloud: yuku ŋuɲin 
cold: kut̪cira 
come: uwa 
crocodile: min̪a kan̪e 
crocodile: yuku piɲci 
cut: pit̪caŋa 
cut: umpi 
cut: yaka 
day: agu puŋam 
day: yiʔi t̪aː kut̪can̪ 
die: ut̪u 
die: ut̪u-ma 
dig: kamba 
dig: waʔi 
dog: kuʔa 
drink: muŋga 
dry: poɟe 
dust: wogo 
ear: kono 
earth: n̪an̪ɲi 
eat: muŋga 
egg: min̪a t̪uka 
elbow: punti 
emu: min̪a n̪ampi 
eye: t̪anta 
face: kaː-t̪anta 
fall: an̪ci 
far: kaci 
father: ŋaci 
fat (n.): yiʔi 
fear: win̪ɲid̪a 
feather: t̪ut̪u 
finger: maʔa-n̪iŋad̪e 
finger: maʔa-pukpe 
fingernail: maʔa-eka 
fire: t̪uma 
fire: t̪uma-t̪anta 
fish: ŋaʔa 
float: pimbi 
fly (n.): yuku n̪eːn 
fly (v.): n̪unpa 
foot: kanda-munu 
foot: t̪aʔu 
forehead: ŋulu-ŋaŋka 
fruit: mayi 
full: ot̪e 
girl: pukpe puʔud̪a 
give: ad̪a 
give: waː 
good: mini 
grass: waka 
guts: t̪upi 
hair: paɲci 
hair: yeŋan 
hair: yiʔi paɲci 
hand: maʔa 
head: pin̪d̪a-eka 
hear: ŋiː 
heart: t̪uli-kaː-kut̪u 
heavy: n̪acin 
he/she: n̪ila 
he/she: n̪un̪a 
hit: pigu 
hold: mama 
hole: aɲci 
how: wantanda 
husband: pama pocon 
I: ŋaɲi 
I: ŋaya 
jaw: walu-koko 
kangaroo: min̪a kuɟa 
kangaroo: min̪a yakalba 
knee: puŋku-pin̪d̪a 
knee: waɲa 
leaf: eŋa 
left: t̪aku 
lie: waː wuna 
lightning: t̪epanda 
lip: t̪aː-aku 
liver: kogom 
live: yet̪ala 
long: uŋgu 
louse: yuku kupan 
louse: yuku kupan mukum 
man: pama 
man: pama kompo 
many: uyu 
meat: min̪a 
moon: kapi 
morning: manu-ŋun̪ca 
mosquito: yuku meʔe 
mother: ŋat̪id̪e 
mountain: yoːyko 
mouth: t̪aː 
name: n̪ampa 
nape: muci t̪aː 
navel: kudin 
near: t̪in̪t̪u 
neck: manu 
new: pugan̪um 
night: agu ŋun̪can 
not: kaʔi 
not: kaʔim 
not: yaʔa 
old: kyuy waya 
old: muwa 
old: pama muwa 
old: waya 
one: t̪ono 
person: pama 
play: kaːgi 
pull: t̪aː t̪ut̪a 
pull: wici 
push: uɲca 
rain: ŋaka 
rat: mih̪a wat̪a 
rat: min̪a kupat̪a 
rat: yuku munpa 
red: ŋolpolin̪ta 
red: wuʔu 
right: mala 
river: waʔawa 
road: agu kulam 
root: yuku t̪aʔu kuman 
rotten: manpan̪ 
rub: n̪umba 
salt: kanti 
sand: kaɲcari 
sand: ŋaːn̪a 
say: t̪awa 
scratch: uga 
sea: ŋaka kanti 
sea: ŋaka t̪empo 
see: uwi 
short: kaːrin 
shoulder: iŋki 
sing: waɟi 
sister: ŋat̪epe 
sister: ŋatule 
sit: n̪iːna 
skin: aku 
sky: ŋuɲin 
sleep: waː wuna 
small: mepen 
smoke: t̪oko 
smooth: pintili 
snake: yuku ŋace 
spit: t̪aː-kati 
squeeze: in̪t̪a 
stand: t̪ana 
star: t̪unpi 
stone: muka 
straight: koɟe(n̪) 
suck: pinda 
sun: puŋa 
swim: muɲɟi 
tail: mulu 
take: kali 
that: aːra 
that: n̪aːru 
they: t̪ana 
they: t̪aːrana 
they two: pula 
they two: pulana 
thigh: kuman 
this: iːru 
thou: n̪inta 
thou: n̪iya 
thou: n̪iyana 
three: koʔele 
throat: manu-man̪a 
throw: t̪iː 
thunder: t̪epanda 
tie: yeŋaŋa 
today: waʔala 
tomorrow: puga 
tongue: t̪aː-ŋan̪t̪a 
tooth: kanu 
tree: yuku 
turn: kaː uŋpa 
two: kuce 
unripe: yet̪a 
vagina: puʔu 
vagina: puʔu t̪aː aku 
vomit: kan̪d̪i 
walk: n̪unpa 
walk: uwa 
wallaby: min̪a paŋku 
warm: t̪umuma 
water: ŋaka 
weep: paːbi 
we (excl.): ŋan̪ca 
we (incl.): ŋampa 
we (incl.): ŋampara 
we two (excl.): ŋana 
we two (excl.): ŋanana 
we two (incl.): ŋale 
we two (incl.): ŋalina 
wet: yiɲe 
what: ŋaːri 
when: wantu 
where: wantu 
white: pat̪ca 
who: wayi 
wife: kuyu-t̪umam 
wind: peba 
wood: t̪uma 
wood: yuku 
woomera: t̪uli 
worm: yuku waːwi 
yellow: kuːrawu 
yesterday: puga 
yes: yeː 
you two: n̪ipa 
you two: n̪ipana 
